

=== Introduction ===


--- Course Introduction ---

(upbeat music)
-: Kubernetes is one of the highest trending technology
in cloud computing, as of today.
Kubernetes had the fastest growth in job searches,
over 173% from a year before.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
and this is the certified Kubernetes Administrators course.
Kubernetes is the go-to platform
for hosting production grade applications.
Currently, demand for engineers
with knowledge on Kubernetes is on the rise,
and it is the right time
to get your Kubernetes certification
to stand out in the market.
However, it is not that easy,
especially as the exam is practical and hands-on.
You need to know the technology
and you need to have enough practice to make it work
(upbeat music)
Which is why in this course,
we first understand various concepts
using illustrations and animations,
combined with some fun analogies
to break down and simplify complex concepts.
We then design and build our own custom cluster from scratch
and finally run end-to-end tests
to validate that our cluster is fully functional.
(upbeat music)
More importantly, we have coding exercises
where you will practice solving Kubernetes coding challenges
in a live Kubernetes environment, right in your browser.
Yes, you don't need to have a high-end system
or access to cloud platforms
or worry about cloud costs to gain practice.
We will provide you access to actual lab environments
and challenges to practice on.
Our labs are unique,
as in we don't provide a blank environment
and give you instructions to copy and paste.
Instead, every lab is created specifically
for the topic you just learned
and you're asked questions to explore
and identify information in the lab
or do specific tasks.
And your job is to figure out how to do those tasks.
So, we will validate your work
and give you feedback instantly.
In case you're stuck,
we have hints and solutions to help you.
We have hundreds of such exercises
that will give you enough practice
to be confident to appear for the exam.
(upbeat music)
This course has helped thousands of students
clear the certification exam with good grades.
(upbeat music)
You will also have exclusive access
to a community through Slack channel
where you can interact with me
and others and other students
and get your doubts cleared.
The exam gets updated every quarter or so,
and we make sure our courses are updated as well.
Over the past three years,
we have released multiple updates to our courses
to ensure the contents are up to date
with the latest changes in the exams.
You can see a release history
in the beginning of the course.
(upbeat music)
We're also a CNCF certified Kubernetes training partner
so you can rest assured that you are in safe hands.
We're so sure you'll benefit from our course
that we offer a 30-day money back guarantee
so there's nothing for you to lose.
So jump right in, enroll today and I'll see you in class.
(upbeat music)

--- Certification ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we look at some of the details around the Certified Kubernetes Administrators program.
What is it, why you need it, and how to prepare for it.
There is no doubt about the fact that the adoption of Kubernetes is expected to grow exponentially in
the coming years, as seen in the graph from Google Trends.
As per a recent survey conducted by indeed, Kubernetes had the fastest growth in job searches over
173% from a year before.
And so it is important for us to be prepared to establish credibility and value in the market.
The Kubernetes Administrator certification, developed by Cloud Native Computing Foundation in collaboration
with the Linux Foundation, does just that.
It helps you stand out in the crowd and allows companies to quickly hire high quality engineers like
you.
On attaining the certification, you will be certified to design, build and administer highly available
Kubernetes clusters.
You can read more about the certification at CNCF certification.
The exam includes one.
Free retake.
In case you don't manage to pass on the initial attempt, you have one more attempt available for free
within the next 12 months.
The mode of delivery is online.
You can deliver the exam anytime, anywhere, at the comfort of your house.
Since this is an online exam and online proctor will be watching you at all times.
There are a set of requirements that need to be met with respect to the environment.
The room you're attending, the exam from, the system you're using to give the test, your network
connectivity, etc. all of these are described in detail in the Candidate Handbook available on the
certification website.
Unlike most of the certification exams out there, the Kubernetes certification is not a multiple choice
exam.
It is an online performance based exam that tests your hands on skills with technology.
This would mean that you don't have to worry about memorizing lots of different numbers in preparation
for the exam.
However, you need to know how the technology works and how you can get it to work.
You will be given different tasks to complete in a set amount of time, which happens to be three hours
for this exam.
As per the exam guidelines, you will however, be able to refer to the Kubernetes official documentation
pages at all times during the exam and in this course, we will walk through how to make best use of
the documentation site so that you can easily locate the right information.
Well, I wish you good luck in preparing for and delivering the Kubernetes certification exam, and
I'm sure with enough practice you will pass with flying colors.
So let us begin.


=== Core Concepts ===


--- Course Release Notes ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Scheduling ===


--- The Kubernetes Trilogy ---

-: Hello there.
Before we begin, I wanna spend a minute
on the Kubernetes series of courses.
Kubernetes is one of the most trending technology
in cloud computing as of today.
It is supported on any cloud platform
and supports hosting enhanced and complex applications
on various kinds of architectures
that make it a vast and complex technology.
There are a set of prerequisite knowledge required
such as containers, applications, yammel files, et cetera.
A lot of topics to discuss,
a lot of concepts to cover
such as the architecture, networking, load balancing,
a variety of monitoring tools,
auto scaling, configuration, security storage, et cetera.
There are students from different backgrounds
such as the absolute beginners to Kubernetes
or those with some experience
looking for specialized knowledge in administration
or those from an application development background.
And there are two certifications in the mix as well,
one for the administrators
and another for the application developers.
Covering all of these topics for all of these students
in a single course is an impossible task,
which is why we created a three course series
so each course can target specific audience,
topics, and certifications.
The Kubernetes for the Absolute Beginner's course,
The Certified Kubernetes Administrators course,
and The Certified Kubernetes Application Developers course.
Let's look at what we cover in each of these courses.
The Kubernetes for the Absolute Beginner's course
helps a beginner having no prior experience
with containers or container orchestration
get started with the concepts of Kubernetes.
As this is a beginner's course,
we do not deep dive into technical details.
Instead, we focus on a high level overview of Kubernetes,
setting up a symbol lab environment to play with Kubernetes,
learning the prerequisites
required to understand and get started,
understanding the various concepts to deploy an application
such as pods, replica sets, deployments, and services.
This course is also suitable for a non-technical person
trying to understand the basic concepts of Kubernetes
just enough to get involved in discussions
around technology.
The Kubernetes for Administrators course
focuses on advanced topics on Kubernetes
and in-depth discussions into the various concepts
around deploying a high availability cluster
for production use case,
understanding more about scheduling, monitoring,
maintenance, securities, storage, and troubleshooting.
This course also helps you prepare
for the certified Kubernetes administrator exam
and gets you verified as a Kubernetes administrator.
The Kubernetes for Developers course
is for application developers
who are looking to learn how to design, build,
and configure cloud native applications.
Now, you don't have to be
an expert application developer for this course,
and there's no real coding or application development
involved in either this course or the certification itself.
You only need to know the real basics of development
on a platform like Python or Node.js.
This course focuses on topics relevant
for a developer such as ConfigMaps,
secrets and service accounts,
multi container pods, readiness and liveness probes,
logging and monitoring, jobs, services, and networking.
This course also helps you prepare
for the certified Kubernetes application developer exam.
All of these courses are filled with coding exercises
and quizzes that will help you practice developing
and deploying applications on Kubernetes.
Now, remember, that there are some topics
that overlap between these courses,
so we recap and discuss them as and when required.
Now, you don't have to take these courses in order.
If you're an administrator,
you may choose to take the beginners
as well as the second course
and get yourself certified as a Kubernetes administrator
or take the beginner's course and the developer's course
to get yourself certified
as a Kubernetes application developer,
which I'd say is the easier of the two
if you were to ask me.
So, if you're ready, let's get started.


=== Logging & Monitoring ===


--- Notes available at KodeKloud Notes ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Application Lifecycle Management ===


--- Core Concepts - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello.
In the first section, we start with the core concepts.
We look at the cluster architecture at a high level
and then look at some of the API primitives,
such as the basic concepts
like Pods, ReplicaSets, Deployments,
followed by services.
If you have attended the beginner's course
or other certification course for application developers,
then you might want to skip some of these topics
or maybe just go through the practice tests alone.
We will now start with the cluster architecture.


=== Cluster Maintenance ===


--- Cluster Architecture ---

We start with a basic overview of the Kubernetes cluster architecture.
We first look at the architecture at a high level, and then we drill down into each of these components.
We see what their roles and responsibilities are and how they are configured.
And finally, you go through a practice test where you look at an existing cluster and are asked to
identify various details with respect to these components in the cluster.
We're going to use an analogy of ships to understand the architecture of Kubernetes.
The purpose of Kubernetes is to host your applications in the form of containers in an automated fashion,
so that you can easily deploy as many instances of your application as required, and easily enable
communication between different services within your application.
So there are many things involved that work together to make this possible.
So let's take a 10,000 foot look at Kubernetes architecture.
Sector.
We have two kinds of shapes in this example cargo ships that does the actual work of carrying containers
across the sea, and control ships that are responsible for monitoring and managing the cargo ships.
The Kubernetes cluster consists of a set of nodes, which may be physical or virtual, on premise or
on cloud, that host applications in the form of containers.
These relate to the cargo ships.
In this analogy, the worker nodes in the cluster are ships that can load containers, but somebody
needs to load the containers on the ships and not just load.
Plan how to load.
Identify the right ships.
Store information about the ships.
Monitor and track the location of containers on the ships.
Manage the whole loading process, etc..
This is done by the control ships that host different offices and departments.
Monitoring equipment's, communication equipments, cranes for moving containers between ships, etc..
the control shifts relate to the master node in the Kubernetes cluster.
The master node is responsible for managing the Kubernetes cluster, storing information regarding the
different nodes, planning which containers goes where, monitoring the nodes and containers on them,
etc..
The master node does all of these using a set of components together known as the control plane components.
We will look at each of these components now.
Now there are many containers being loaded and unloaded from the ships on a daily basis.
And so you need to maintain information about the different ships, what container is on which ship
and what time it was loaded, etc. all of these are stored in a highly available key value store known
as etcd.
Etcd is a database that stores information in a key value format.
We will look more into what etcd cluster actually is, what data is stored in it, and how it stores
the data in one of the upcoming lectures.
When ships arrive, you load containers on them using cranes.
The cranes identify the containers that need to be placed on ships.
It identifies the right ship based on its size, its capacity, the number of containers already on
the ship, and any other conditions such as the destination of the ship, the type of containers it
is allowed to carry, etc. so those are schedulers.
In a Kubernetes cluster, a scheduler identifies the right node to place a container on based on the
containers resource requirements, the worker nodes capacity, or any other policies or constraints
such as taints and tolerations or node affinity rules that are on them.
We will look at these in much more detail with examples and practice tests later in this course.
We have a whole section on scheduling alone.
There are different offices in the dock that are assigned to special tasks or departments.
For example, the operations team takes care of ship handling, traffic control, etc. they deal with
issues related to damages, the routes the different ships take, etc. the cargo team takes care of
containers when containers are damaged or destroyed.
They make sure new containers are made available.
We have these services office that takes care of the IT and communications between different ships.
Similarly, in Kubernetes we have controllers available that take care of different areas.
The node controller takes care of nodes.
They're responsible for onboarding new nodes to the cluster, handling situations where nodes become
unavailable or get get destroyed, and the replication controller ensures that the desired number of
containers are running at all times in a replication group.
So we have seen different components like the different offices, the different ships, the data store,
the cranes.
But how do these communicate with each other?
How does one office reach the other office, and who manages them all at a high level?
The cube API server is the primary management component of Kubernetes.
The cube API server is responsible for orchestrating all operations within the cluster.
It exposes the Kubernetes API, which is used by external users to perform management operations on
the cluster, as well as the various controllers to monitor the state of the cluster and make necessary
changes as required by the worker nodes to communicate with the server.
Now we are working with containers here.
Containers are everywhere, so we need everything to be container compatible.
Our applications are in the form of containers.
The different components that form the entire management system on the master node could be hosted in
the form of containers.
The DNS service networking solution can all be deployed in the form of containers.
So we need this software that can run containers and that's the container runtime engine.
A popular one being Docker.
So we need Docker or its supported equivalent installed on all the nodes in the cluster, including
the master nodes.
If you wish to host the control plane components as containers.
Now it doesn't always have to be Docker.
Kubernetes supports other runtime engines as well, like container D or rocket.
Let us now turn our focus onto the cargo ships.
Now every ship has a captain.
The captain is responsible for managing all activities on these ships.
The captain is responsible for liaising with the master ships, starting with letting the mastership
know that they are interested in joining the group.
Receiving information about the containers to be loaded on the ship and loading the appropriate containers
as required.
Sending reports back to the master about the status of this ship and the status of the containers on
the ship, etc..
Now the captain of the ship is the kubelet in Kubernetes.
A kubelet is an agent that runs on each node in a cluster.
It listens for instructions from the kube API server and deploys or destroys containers on the nodes
as required.
The kube API server periodically fetches status reports from the Kubelet to monitor the status of nodes
and containers on them.
The Kubelet was more of a captain on the ship that manages containers on the ship.
But the applications running on the worker nodes need to be able to communicate with each other.
For example, you might have a web server running in one container on one of the nodes and a database
server running on another container on another node.
How would the web server reach the database server on the other node?
Communication between worker nodes are enabled by another component that runs on the worker node, known
as the kube proxy.
Service.
The kube proxy service ensures that the necessary rules are in place on the worker nodes to allow the
containers running on them to reach each other.
So to summarize, we have master and worker nodes on the master.
We have the etcd cluster which stores information about the cluster.
We have the kube scheduler that is responsible for scheduling applications or containers on nodes.
We have different controllers that take care of different functions like the node controller, replication
controller, etc. we have the kube API server that is responsible for orchestrating all operations within
the cluster.
On the worker node, we have the Kubelet that listens for instructions from the kube API server and
manages containers and the kube proxy that helps in enabling communication between services within the
cluster.
So that's a high level overview of the various components.
We will drill down into each of these in the upcoming lectures.
That's it for now and I will see you in the next lecture.


