=== (2025 Updates)Helm Basics ===


--- Kube-API Server ---

In this lecture we will talk about the cube API server in Kubernetes.
Earlier we discussed that the cube API server is the primary management component in Kubernetes.
When you run a cube control command, the cube control utility is in fact reaching to the cube API server.
The cube API server first authenticates the request and validates it.
It then retrieves the data from the etcd cluster and responds back with the requested information.
You don't really need to use the cube control command line instead.
You could also invoke the APIs directly by sending a Post request like this.
Let's look at an example of creating a pod.
When you do that, as before, the request is authenticated first and then validated.
In this case, the API server creates a Pod object without assigning it to a node.
Updates the information in the etcd server.
Updates the user that the pod has been created.
The scheduler continuously monitors the API server and realizes that there is a new pod with no node
assigned.
The scheduler identifies the right node to place the new pod part on and communicates that back to the
cube API server.
The API server then updates the information in the etcd cluster.
The API server then passes that information to the Kubelet in the appropriate worker node.
The Kubelet then creates the pod on the node and instructs the container runtime engine to deploy the
application image.
Once done, the Kubelet updates the status back to the API server, and the API server then updates
the data back in the etcd cluster.
A similar pattern is followed every time a change is requested.
The kube API server is at the center of all the different tasks that needs to be performed to make a
change in the cluster.
To summarize, the kube API server is responsible for authenticating and validating requests, retrieving
and updating data in the etcd data store.
In fact, kube API server is the only component that interacts directly with the etcd data store.
The other components, such as the scheduler, kube, controller, manager, and Kubelet uses the API
server to perform updates in the cluster in their respective areas.
If you bootstrapped your cluster using kube admin tool, Then you don't need to know this, but if you
are setting up the hard way, then the cube API server is available as a binary in the Kubernetes release
page.
Download it and configure it to run as a service on your Kubernetes master node.
The cube API server is run with a lot of parameters, as you can see here.
Throughout this section, we're going to take a peek at how to install and configure these individual
components of the Kubernetes architecture.
You don't have to understand all of the options right now, but I think having a high level understanding
on some of these now will make it easier later when we configure the whole cluster and all of its components
from scratch.
The Kubernetes architecture consists of a lot of different components working with each other, talking
to each other in many different ways.
So they all need to know where the other components are.
There are different modes of authentication, authorization, encryption, and security, and that's
why you have so many options.
When we go through the relevant section in the course, we will pull up this file and look at the relevant
options.
For now, we will look at a few important ones.
A lot of them are certificates that are used to secure the connectivity between different components.
We look at these certificates in more detail when we go through the SSL TLS certificates lecture later
in this course.
There is a whole section just for it, so we will get rid of them for now.
But just remember all of the various components we are going to look at in this section will have certificates
associated with them.
The option etcd servers is where you specify the location of the etcd servers.
This is how the kube API server connects to the etcd servers.
So how do you view the kube API server options in an existing cluster?
It depends on how you set up your cluster.
If you set it up with a kube admin tool, the kube admin deploys the kube API server as a pod in the
kube system namespace on the master node.
You can see the options within the pod definition file located at Etsy Kubernetes manifest folder in
a non kube admin setup.
You can inspect the options by viewing the kube API server service located at Etsy systemd system Kube
apiserver dot service.
You can also see the running process and the effective options by listing the process on the master
node and searching for kube API server.
Well, that's it for this lecture.


=== (2025 Updates)Kustomize Basics ===


--- Kube Controller Manager ---

In this lecture we will talk about Kube Controller Manager.
As we discussed earlier, the Kube controller manager manages various controllers in Kubernetes.
A controller is like an office or department within the master ship that have their own set of responsibilities,
such as an office for the ships would be responsible for monitoring and taking necessary actions about
the ships.
Whenever a new ship arrives, or when a ship leaves or gets destroyed, another office could be one
that manages the containers on the ships.
They take care of containers that are damaged or fall off ships.
So these offices are, number one, continuously on the lookout for the status of the ships, and two,
takes necessary actions to remediate the situation.
In the Kubernetes terms, a controller is a process that continuously monitors the state of various
components within the system, and works towards bringing the whole system to the desired functioning
state.
For example, the node controller is responsible for monitoring the status of the notes and taking necessary
actions to keep the applications running.
It does that through the cube API server.
The node controller checks the status of the nodes every five seconds.
That way the node controller can monitor the health of the nodes.
If it stops receiving heartbeat from a node, the node is marked as unreachable, but it waits for 40s
before marking it unreachable.
After a node is marked unreachable, it gives it five minutes to come back up.
If it doesn't, it removes the pods assigned to that node and provisions them on the healthy ones.
If the pods are part of a replica set, the next controller is the replication controller.
It is responsible for monitoring the status of replica sets, and ensuring that the desired number of
pods are available at all times within the set.
If a pod dies, it creates another one.
Now those were just two examples of controllers.
There are many more such controllers available within Kubernetes.
Whatever concepts we have seen so far in Kubernetes, such as deployments, services, namespaces,
or persistent volumes and whatever intelligence is built into these constructs, it is implemented through
these various controllers.
As you can imagine, this is kind of the brain behind a lot of things in Kubernetes.
Now, how do you see these controllers and where are they located in your cluster?
They are all packaged into a single process known as the Kubernetes Controller manager.
When you install the Kubernetes controller manager, the different controllers get installed as well.
So how do you install and view the Kubernetes Controller manager?
Download the Kube controller manager from Kubernetes release page.
Extract it and run it as a service.
When you run it, as you can see, there are a list of options provided.
This is where you provide additional options to customize your controller.
Remember some of the default settings for node controller we discussed earlier, such as the node monitor
period, the grace period, and the eviction timeout.
These go in here as options.
There is an additional option called controllers that you can use to specify which controllers to enable.
By default, all of them are enabled, but you can choose to enable a select few.
So in case any of your controllers don't seem to work or exist, this would be a good starting point
to look at.
So how do you view the Kube Controller Manager server options?
Again, it depends on how you set up your cluster.
If you set it up with the kube admin tool, kube admin deploys the kube controller manager as a pod
in the kube system namespace on the master node.
You can see the options within the pod definition file located at Etsy Kubernetes manifest folder in
a non kube admin setup.
You can inspect the options by viewing the Kube Controller Manager service located at the services directory.
You can also see the running process and the effective options by listing the process on the master
node and searching for Kube Controller manager.
Well, that's it for this lecture and I will see you in the next.


=== Troubleshooting ===


--- Kube Scheduler ---

In this lecture we will talk about kube scheduler.
Earlier we discussed that the Kubernetes Scheduler is responsible for scheduling pods and nodes.
Now don't let the graphic mislead you.
Remember the scheduler is only responsible for deciding which pod goes on which node.
It doesn't actually place the pod on the nodes.
That's the job of the kubelet.
The Kubelet or the captain on the ship is who creates the pod on the ships.
The scheduler only decides which pod goes where.
Let's look at how the scheduler does that in a bit more detail.
First of all, why do you need scheduler when there are many ships and many containers?
You want to make sure that the right container ends up on the right ship.
For example, there could be different sizes of ships and containers.
You want to make sure the ship has sufficient capacity to accommodate those containers.
Different ships may be going to different destinations.
You want to make sure your containers are placed on the right ships, so they end up in the right destination.
In Kubernetes, the scheduler decides which nodes the pods are placed on.
Depending on certain criteria, you may have pods with different resource requirements.
You can have nodes in the cluster dedicated to certain applications.
So how does the scheduler assign these pods?
The scheduler looks at each pod and tries to find the best node for it.
For example, let's take one of these pods, the big blue one.
It has a set of CPU and memory requirements.
The scheduler goes through two phases to identify the best node for the pod.
In the first phase, the scheduler tries to filter out the nodes that do not fit the profile for this
pod.
For example, the nodes that do not have sufficient CPU and memory resources requested by the pod.
So the first two nodes are filtered out.
So we are now left with the two nodes on which the pod can be placed.
Now how does the scheduler pick one from the two?
The scheduler ranks the nodes to identify the best fit for the pod.
It uses a priority function to assign a score to the nodes on a scale of 0 to 10.
For example, the scheduler calculates the amount of resources that would be free on the nodes after
placing the pod on them.
In this case, the one on the right would have six CPUs free if the pod was placed on it, which is
four more than the other one.
So it gets a better rank.
And so it wins.
So that's how a scheduler works at a high level.
And of course these can be customized and you can write your own scheduler as well.
There are many more topics to look at such as resource requirements, limits taints and tolerations.
Node selectors, affinity rules, etc. which is why we have an entire section dedicated to scheduling
coming up in this course, where we will discuss each of these in much more detail.
For now, we will continue to focus on the scheduler as a process at a high level.
So how do you install the scheduler?
Download the kube scheduler binary from the Kubernetes release page, extract it and run it as a service.
When you run it as a service, you specify the scheduler configuration file.
So how do you view the kube scheduler server options?
Again, if you set it up with the kube adm tool, the kube adm tool deploys the kube scheduler as a
pod in the kube system namespace on the master node.
You can see the options within the pod definition file located at Kubernetes manifest folder.
You can also see the running process and the effective options by listing the process on the master
node and searching for kube scheduler.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
I will see you in the next.


=== Other Topics ===


--- Kubelet ---

In this lecture we will look at cubelet.
Earlier we discussed that the Cubelet is like the captain of the ship.
They lead all activities on a ship.
They are the ones responsible for doing all the paperwork necessary to become part of the cluster.
They are the sole point of contact from the master ship.
They load or unload containers on the ship as instructed by the scheduler on the master.
They also send back reports at regular intervals on the status of the ship and the containers on them.
The cubelet in the Kubernetes worker node registers the node with the Kubernetes cluster.
When it receives instructions to load a container or a pod on the node, it requests the container runtime
engine, which may be Docker, to pull the required image and run an instance.
The Cubelet then continues to monitor the state of the pod and containers in it, and reports to the
kube API server on a timely basis.
So how do you install the cubelet?
If you use the kube admin tool to deploy your cluster, it does not automatically deploy the Cubelet.
Now that's the difference from the other components.
You must always manually install the Kubelet on your worker nodes.
Download the installer, extract it and run it as a service.
You can view the running cubelet process and the effective options by listing the process on the worker
node and searching for Cubelet.
We will look more into Cubelets, how to configure Cubelets, generate certificates, and finally how
to TLS bootstrap Cubelets later in this course.
That's it for now.
I will see you in the next lecture.


=== Lightning Labs ===


--- Kube Proxy ---

In this lecture we will talk about kube proxy within a Kubernetes cluster.
Every pod can reach every other pod.
This is accomplished by deploying a pod networking solution to the cluster.
A pod network is an internal virtual network that spans across all the nodes in the cluster, to which
all the pods connect to.
Through this network, they're able to communicate with each other.
There are many solutions available for deploying such a network.
In this case, I have a web application deployed on the first node and a database application deployed
on the second.
The web app can reach the database simply by using the IP of the pod, but there is no guarantee that
the IP of the database pod will always remain the same.
If you've gone through the lecture on services as discussed in the beginner's course, you must know
that a better way for the web application to access the database is using a service.
So we create a service to expose the database application across the cluster.
The web application can now access the database using the name of the service DB.
The service also gets an IP address assigned to it whenever a pod tries to reach the surface using its
IP or name, it forwards the traffic to the backend pod.
In this case, the database.
But what is this service and how does it get an IP?
Does the service join the same pod network?
The service cannot join the pod network because the service is not an actual thing.
It is not a container like pods, so it doesn't have any interfaces or an actively listening process.
It is a virtual component that only lives in the Kubernetes memory.
But then we also said that the service should be accessible across the cluster from any nodes.
So how is that achieved?
That's where kube proxy comes in.
Kube proxy is a process that runs on each node in the Kubernetes cluster.
Its job is to look for new services.
And every time a new service is created, it creates the appropriate rules on each node to forward traffic
to those services to the backend pods.
One way it does this is using iptables rules.
In this case, it creates an iptables rule on each node in the cluster to forward traffic heading to
the IP of the service, which is 10.96.0.1.
To the IP of the actual port, which is 10.32.0.15.
So that's how kube proxy configures a service.
We discussed a lot more about networking and services and kube proxy and pod networking later in this
course.
Again we have a large section just for networking.
This is a high level overview for now.
We will now see how to install kube proxy.
Download the kube proxy binary from the Kubernetes release page.
Extract it and run it as a service.
The kube adm tool deploys kube proxy as pods on each node.
In fact, it is deployed as a daemonset, so a single pod is always deployed on each node in the cluster.
Well, if you don't know about Daemonset yet, don't worry.
We have a lecture on that coming up in this course.
We have now covered a high level overview of the Kubernetes components, including control plane and
node level components like kube proxy.
As mentioned, we will look at some of these in much more detail at various sections in this course.
Well that's it for this lecture.
I will see you in the next section.


=== Mock Exams ===


