--- Pods ---

Before we head into understanding pods, we would like to assume that the following have been set up
already.
At this point, we assume that the application is already developed and built into Docker images, and
it is available on Docker repository like Docker Hub, so Kubernetes can pull it down.
We also assume that the Kubernetes cluster has already been set up and is working.
This could be a single node setup or a multi node setup.
Doesn't matter.
All the services need to be in a running state, as we discussed before with Kubernetes.
Our ultimate aim is to deploy our application in the form of containers on a set of machines that are
configured as worker nodes in a cluster.
However, Kubernetes does not deploy containers directly on the worker nodes.
The containers are encapsulated into a Kubernetes object known as pods.
A pod is a single instance of an application.
A pod is the smallest object that you can create in Kubernetes.
Here we see the simplest of simplest cases, where you have a single node Kubernetes cluster with a
single instance of your application running in a single Docker container encapsulated in a pod.
What if the number of users accessing your application increase and you need to scale your application?
You need to add additional instances of your web application to share the load.
Now where would you spin up additional instances?
Do we bring up new container instances within the same pod?
No.
We create new pod altogether with a new instance of the same application.
As you can see, we now have two instances of our web application running on two separate paths on the
same Kubernetes system or node.
What if the user base further increases and your current node has no sufficient capacity?
Well, then you can always deploy additional pods on a new node in the cluster.
You will have a new node added to the cluster to expand the cluster's physical capacity.
So what I'm trying to illustrate in this slide is that pods usually have a 1 to 1 relationship, with
containers running your application.
To scale up, you create new pods, and to scale down you delete existing pods.
You do not add additional containers to an existing pod to scale your application.
Also, if you're wondering how we implement all of this and how we achieve load balancing between containers,
etc., we will get into all of that in a later lecture.
For now, we are only trying to understand the basic concepts.
We just said that pods usually have a 1 to 1 relationship with the containers.
But are we restricted to having a single container in a single pod?
No.
A single pod can have multiple containers, except for the fact that they're usually not multiple containers
of the same kind.
As we discussed in the previous slide, if our intention was to scale our application, then we would
need to create additional pods.
But sometimes you might have a scenario where you have a helper container that might be doing some kind
of supporting task for our web application, such as processing a user entered data, processing a file
uploaded by the user, etc. and you want these helper containers to live alongside your application
container.
In that case, you can have both of these containers part of the same pod, so that when a new application
container is created.
The helper is also created and when it dies, the helper also dies since they are part of the same pod.
The two containers can also communicate with each other directly by referring to each other as localhost,
since they share the same network space.
Plus, they can easily share the same storage space as well.
If you still have doubts in this topic, I would understand if you did, because I did.
The first time I learned these concepts, we could take another shot at understanding pods from a different
angle.
Let's for a moment keep Kubernetes out of our discussion and talk about simple Docker containers.
Let's assume we were developing a process or a script to deploy our application on a Docker host.
Then we would first simply deploy our application using a simple Docker run Python app command.
And the application runs fine and our users are able to access it.
When the load increases, we deploy more instances of our application by running the Docker run commands
many more times.
This works fine and we're all happy.
Now, sometime in the future, our application is further developed, undergoes architectural changes,
and grows and gets complex.
We now have a new helper container that helps our web application by processing or fetching data from
elsewhere.
These helper containers maintain a 1 to 1 relationship with our application container, and thus needs
to communicate with the application containers directly and access data from those containers.
For this, we need to maintain a map of what app and helper containers are connected to each other.
We would need to establish network connectivity between these containers ourselves using links and custom
networks.
We would need to create sharable volumes and share it among the containers.
We would need to maintain a map of that as well.
And most importantly, we would need to monitor the state of the application container and when it dies,
manually kill the helper container as well, as it's no longer required.
When a new container is deployed, we would need to deploy the new helper container as well with pods.
Kubernetes does all of this for us automatically.
We just need to define what containers a pod consists of, and the containers in a pod by default will
have access to the same storage, the same network namespace, and same fate as in they will be created
together and destroyed together.
Even if our application didn't happen to be so complex and we could live with a single container, Kubernetes
still requires you to create pods, but this is good in the long run as your application is now equipped
for architectural changes and scale in the future.
However, also note that Multi-container pod are a rare use case, and we're going to stick to single
containers per pod in this course.
Let us now look at how to deploy pods.
Earlier we learned about the Kube control run command.
What this command really does is it deploys a Docker container by creating a pod.
So it first creates a pod automatically and deploys an instance of the nginx docker image.
But where does it get the application image from?
For that you need to specify the image name using the image parameter.
The application image.
In this case the nginx image is downloaded from the Docker Hub repository.
Docker hub, as we discussed, is a public repository where Docker images of various applications are
stored.
You could configure Kubernetes to pull the image from the public Docker hub or a private repository
within the The organization.
Now that we have a pod created, how do we see the list of pods available?
The Kube control get pods command helps us see the list of pods in our cluster.
In this case, we see the pod is in a container creating state and soon changes to a running state when
it is actually running.
Also, remember that we haven't really talked about the concepts on how a user can access the nginx
web server, and so in the current state, we haven't made the web server accessible to external users.
You can access it internally from the node.
But for now we will just see how to deploy a pod.
And later in a later lecture, once we learn about networking and services, we will get to know how
to make this service accessible to end users.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to a demo and I will see you in the next one.


=== Bonus Section ===


--- Pods with YAML ---

In this lecture we will talk about creating a pod using a YAML based configuration file.
In the previous lecture we learned about YAML files in general.
Now we will learn how to develop YAML files specifically for Kubernetes.
Kubernetes uses YAML files as inputs for the creation of objects such as pods, replicas, deployments,
services, etc. all of these follow a similar structure.
A Kubernetes definition file always contains four top level fields the API version, kind, metadata,
and spec.
These are the top level or root level properties.
These are also required fields, so you must have them in your configuration file.
Let us look at each one of them.
The first one is the API version.
This is the version of the Kubernetes API we are using to create the object, depending on what we are
trying to create.
We must use the right API version for now since we are working on pods.
We will set the API version as v1.
Few other possible values for this field are apps v1, beta, extensions v1, beta, etc. we will see
what these are for later in this course.
Next is the kind.
The kind refers to the type of object we are trying to create, which in this case happens to be a pod.
So we will set it as pod.
Some other possible values here could be replica set or deployment or service, which is what you see
in the kind field in the table on the right.
The next is metadata.
The metadata is data about the object like its name, labels, etc. as you can see, unlike the first
two where you have specified a string value, this is in the form of a dictionary.
So everything under metadata is intended to the right a little bit.
And so names and labels are children of metadata.
The number of spaces before the two properties, name and labels doesn't matter, but they should be
the same as they are siblings.
In this case, labels has more spaces on the left than name, and so it is now a child of the name property
instead of a sibling, which is incorrect.
Also, the two properties must have more spaces than its parent, which is metadata, so that it's intended
to the right a little bit.
In this case, all three of them have the same number of spaces before them, and so they are all siblings,
which is not correct under metadata.
The name is a string value.
So you can name your pod my app pod and the labels is a dictionary.
So labels is a dictionary within the metadata dictionary.
And it can have any key and value pairs as you wish.
For now I have added a label app with the value My app.
Similarly, you could add other labels as you see fit, which will help you identify these objects at
a later point in time.
Say, for example, there are hundreds of pods running a front end application and hundreds of pods
running a back end application or a database.
It will be difficult for you to group these pods once they are deployed.
If you label them now as front end, back end, or database, you will be able to filter the pods based
on this label at a later point in time.
It's important to note that under metadata, you can only specify name or labels or anything else that
Kubernetes expects to be under metadata.
You cannot add any other property as you wish under this.
However, under labels you can have any kind of key or value pairs as you see fit.
So it's important to understand what each of these parameters expect.
So far, we have only mentioned the type and name of the object we need to create, which happens to
be a pod with a name Myapp pod, but we haven't really specified the Divide the container or image we
need in the pod.
The last section in the configuration file is the specification section, which is written as spec.
Depending on the object we are going to create.
This is where we would provide additional information to Kubernetes pertaining to that object.
This is going to be different for different objects.
So it's important to understand or refer to the documentation section to get the right format for each.
Since we are only creating a pod with a single container in it, it is easy.
Spec is a dictionary, so add a property under it called containers.
Containers is a list or an array.
The reason this property is a list is because the pods can have multiple containers within them, as
we learned in the lecture earlier.
In this case though, we will only add a single item in the list since we plan to have only a single
container in the pod.
The dash right before the name indicates that this is the first item in the list.
The item in the list is a dictionary, so add a name and image property.
The value for image is nginx, which is the name of the Docker image in the Docker repository.
Once the file is created, run the command kubectl create dash f followed by the file name, which is
pod definition YAML and Kubernetes creates the pod.
So to summarize, remember the four top level properties API version kind, metadata and spec.
Then start by adding values to those depending on the object you are going to create.
Once we create the pod, how do you see it?
Use the kubectl get pods command to see a list of pods available.
In this case it's just one.
To see detailed information about the pod, run the kubectl describe pod command.
This will tell you information about the pod when it was created, what labels are assigned to it,
what Docker containers are part of it, and the events associated with that pod.

--- Demo - Pods with YAML ---

In this demo, we're going to create a pod again.
But this time, instead of making use of the cube cuddle run command, we are going to create it using
a YAML definition file.
So our goal is to create a YAML file with the pod specifications in it.
Now there are many ways to do it.
You could just create one in any text editor.
So if you're on windows you could just use notepad.
Or if you're on Linux as I am, just use a native editor like VI or vim, an editor with support for
YAML language would be very helpful, um, in getting the syntax right.
So instead of notepad, it's a tool like Notepad Plus plus in Windows or vim in Linux would be better.
Now I'll talk more about tips and tricks and other tools and ideas that can help with this.
Um, more in the upcoming lectures.
For now, let's take, uh, with the very basic, uh, form of creating a YAML file using VI editor
on my Linux system.
So here I am on my Linux terminal, and I'm going to make use of vim text based editor to create this
Pod definition file.
So the name of the file I'm going to call as pod YAML.
And as seen in the lecture we will start off with the four, uh root level elements or the root level
properties that we, that we saw which are API version kind metadata and spec.
So we know that the value of for API version for a pod is V1.
Uh, the kind is uh, pod with a capital P, so it is case sensitive.
So, uh, that's important.
And metadata is a dictionary and it can have values where we define the name of the pod.
So I'm going to use name as nginx.
And we can have uh additional uh labels that we can specify under it.
So labels again is also a dictionary.
And it can have as many labels as you want under it.
So we can specify a label which is a key value pair, such as a app and nginx.
And we can also add more labels like tier uh and set it to front end.
Anything that can help us group this particular pod.
Next um, we have to define the spec.
So spec is also a dictionary and it has an object called containers.
So before we move on to that, uh, we have to make sure that we get the indentation right.
For example, the app and tier are children of the labels property.
So it has to be in the same, uh, kind of vertical line here.
And similarly under metadata you have name and labels which are the children of metadata.
So they both have to be, uh, within the same vertical line.
Uh, so you have to make sure that the spacing is correct.
Typically it would be two spaces or a tab, but it is recommended not to use tabs.
So always stick to two spaces and and stick to that throughout.
So the next thing that we're going to configure is the container.
So a container is a list of objects.
Now we first give it a name.
Note that this is the name of the container within the pod.
And there could be multiple containers.
And each can have a different name.
So one container could be named app and another container could be named uh helper.
Any name that makes sense to you, we're going to use the same name as that of the container image.
So we will just name it nginx.
And the second object that we're going to add here is the image name, which is the Docker Hub image
name of the container that we're going to create.
So the image name is um again nginx.
Um if you're using other registries than Docker Hub then make sure to specify the full path, um to
that image repository here.
Now remember that we can add Additional containers, the pod as well.
So if you have to do that and we have to declare the secondary element, uh, to the list, which would
be the second object in the list.
So here I can, for example, add a BusyBox container using the BusyBox image.
And that would be the second element of the array.
So in this case we're going to stick to one single container.
So I'm going to just delete that.
And I'm now going to hit escape colon wq to save this file.
And we will just use the Cat command to make sure that the file was created with the expected contents.
So make sure the format is correct.
So the name and labels are children of metadata.
And you can see that they are on the same, uh, kind of vertical line.
And similarly labels have two children which are the two labels app and tier and spec has a list.
Um, and we are defining it as a list with a hyphen followed by the objects.
So we can make use of the kubectl create command or the kubectl apply command.
So the create and apply command kind of works the same.
Um if you're creating a new object right.
You can either use create or you can use apply.
Um it doesn't matter.
Um, and we pass in the uh, file name using the dash f option.
And here we can see that the pod has been created.
So let's check the status real quick.
And you can see that it's in container creating state.
And then when we check again we see that it's in a running state.
And as before if you want to get more details about the pod, you can always run the kubectl describe
command and specify the the name of the pod.
And you should get a much more in-depth information about the pod.
Okay, so that's it for this demo.
In the next section we will learn some tips and tricks of developing YAML files.
Um, easily using IDE's.

--- Practice Test Introduction ---

Before you head into a practice test which follows this video, I wanted to spend a few minutes on walking
you through the practice test portal.
Following this lecture, you'll be taken to the labs.
Click the start button to load the lab.
You must be accessing the practice test on a laptop or a desktop system, as you will require a keyboard
to work hands on.
Allow some time for the labs to load.
It usually loads in less than 30s and in rare scenarios it might take a few minutes.
So I request you to be patient when it takes a long time.
Now, once the lab is loaded, you will find the quiz portal on the left and a terminal on the right.
The terminal on the right is a live terminal for you to work on.
This could be a Linux terminal if you are learning Linux shell scripting or git, and this could be
a Docker host if you are learning Docker or the Kubernetes control plane.
If you're learning Kubernetes, you can run commands here and interact with the system and perform your
tasks.
There are two parts to the labs.
One is this terminal on the right where you'll be working, and you'll run commands to view and configure
the Kubernetes cluster.
The second is the quiz portal on the left.
Each topic covered in the lecture has a practice test associated with it that consists anywhere from
5 to 15 questions.
You can see the total number of questions at the top and as and when you progress through them, it
will be marked accordingly.
The questions are of different kind.
Sometimes you're asked to look for information in the environment and select the right answer.
At other times, you will perform changes to the environment, such as deploy a set of pods or services
and ask you to look for information within them.
Or, you may be asked to perform a configuration task using a given spec.
We then test your work to ensure that you've completed it successfully.
Sometimes you're given a set of Kubernetes definition files and asked to use them to create configurations.
Use the VI editor to edit these files.
Remember, in the certification test, you must use one of the editors that come within the provided
exam environment.
So you must practice working with VI editors.
We also have some scenario based multiple choice questions, so you won't have these in the actual certification
exam.
We added these to test your knowledge and ensure that you're learning.
When you're given a spec, remember to create a configuration that matches it exactly.
You can skip any question by clicking on this button at the top, but remember you cannot come back
as a questions follow a particular flow.
At times, you can access the application that you deploy by clicking on the web portal link given above
your terminal, but this is subject to your application.
Having a web portal.
If for some reason you need to open a new terminal, then click on this button at the top.
Now remember that this is not a replica of the actual Kubernetes certification exam, so the interface
and your experience in the actual exam is going to be slightly different than this.
This is a custom solution we built to help you practice for it, and to test your skills and to guide
you and to prepare you for the actual exam.
Now, don't be too worried about the exam interface itself.
After all, it's going to be the tasks that you must perform and the terminal side by side.
So almost like our lab environment, so it should be easy to follow.
Don't stress too much about it.
You can take these tests over and over as many times as you like until you feel confident.
And remember, this is a temporary environment and is only available for one hour depending on the mock
exam or your particular lab environment, after which it is deleted so your work will not be saved.
You may refresh the lab window anytime and it should take you back to the same lab environment.
So for example, if you temporarily lose internet connectivity, uh, and if you restart your, uh,
your lab environment or you refresh your web page, it should take you back to the same lab environment.
However, if you close the browser for a long time or your lab session is idle for a long time, then
it will be automatically terminated.
But you can always refresh the page and reload a new lab environment and start from the first question.
Also note that you must not use or store any personal credentials or persistent work in this environment.
And finally, remember that the practice tests are not just to test your skills, and the concepts you
learned in the lecture are designed for you to learn the concept and gain hands on experience.
So there may be topics that are not discussed in the lecture.
There might be times where you're stuck, and if you're stuck, of course you can reach out to us and
you can even try it again.
If you if you don't know anything, you you have, you must go through the documentation pages and try
to find the answers.
So to to push you to read the documentation pages and find information and implement them is the idea
behind these practice tests.
So as always, if you need additional explanation on any topic, then please do reach out to us and
let us know.
But every question or every task that you're assigned to in the labs, you will have hints or solutions
in the Hints and Solutions tab that that should be visible along with your question.

--- Demo: Accessing Labs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Course setup - accessing the labs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Pods ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Pods (optional) ---

-: Okay, so let's go over the solution for the labs on pods.
So in this lab we're gonna get familiar with pods.
So the first question is how many pods exist on the system?
Now, we know that we can get the information
about pods using the kubectl get pods command.
That's what we learned, so we're gonna run
the kubectl get pods command, and you can ignore this line
here that says in the current default namespace,
so we're gonna talk about namespaces
in one of the upcoming lectures,
so you don't have to worry about that for now.
This is for those who already know what a namespace is.
If you know, then just make sure you're checking the number
of pods in the current default namespace.
Okay, so when we're on the kubectl get pods command,
we see the result is zero, there are no resources found.
So we're gonna select zero here.
Okay so the next is a task, so we've got to create a new pod
with the Engine x image, so to create a pod,
the easiest way is to run the kubectl run command,
and we specify the image, so we have to specify a name
and an image, so if you're not sure about the syntax,
run the help command, and we see it's the name
of the pod followed by the image, this format.
So we're gonna run that, it's kubectl, run.
And since the, there's no specification about the name
of the pod, so we could basically name it anything.
But the image name has to be an x.
Okay, so the pod is created.
Okay, now how many pods are created now?
We've created a few more pods, so please check again.
So let's run the kubectl get pods command.
Okay, so in addition to the Engine x pod that we created,
there are a few other pods that were created
by us basically, so there are in a total 1, 2, 3, 4 pods
at the moment, so let's select four.
What is the image used to create the new pods?
You must look at one of the new pods
in detail to figure this out, so let's pick one of the pods,
this one, and we know that to look at it in detail,
we've got to run the kubectl describe command.
Okay, so now we have additional details about the pod.
So this is the name of the pod, and you have the start time,
and a number of other details.
So the question is, what is the image used
to create the new pods, so we know that this tells us
the containers, and here you have the image
and the image is BusyBox, so let's select BusyBox.
Okay, now which nodes are these pods placed on?
You must look at all the pods in detail to figure this out.
So one way to do this is we've already
run the kubectl describe pod command,
and we can see that this is on node control plane,
and we could actually run the the describe command
against each pod, so that's one way to figure that out.
Another way, and an easier way,
is to just run kubectl get pods command
with the wide option, and here you get to see the node
and it says control plane, so all of the new pods
are created on the control plane node, select Control Plane.
Okay, and how many containers are part of the pod, Web App?
So there's a new pod created, this one,
get pods command to see Web App.
Okay, so if, if you look at this column right here,
it shows us the total number of containers part of the pod.
So this number right here is the total number of containers.
So that's one way to figure that out
or you could always run the describe command
to see that in detail, so here you see containers
and then you have one container here,
that's Engine x and the other one right here.
So those are the two containers, so select two.
Then you have what images are used
in the new web app pod, you must look at all the pods
in detail to figure this out, actually it should be,
you must look at all the containers in detail.
So here you have two containers and
if you look at, if you look here,
you see that the image for Engine x is Engine x
and the one for Agent x is called Agent x.
So there's Engine x and Agent x, those are the images used
for those containers, so this one.
Okay, now what is a state of the container, Agent x
in the pod, Web App, so if you look at the container here
and you see there are, there is a state,
and it is in a waiting state at the moment.
So out of these, it's not running ready or success,
it's actually error or waiting, so this is the state.
Okay, now why do you think the container, Agent x
in pod, Web App, is in an error or waiting state?
So try to figure it out from the Events section of the pod.
So if you look at one of the section here, under state,
you have the reason called as Error Image Pull,
or if you just look at it below here in the Event section,
you can see the error which is basically this one,
it says, "Fail to pull image, Agent x,"
and, "at docker.io/library/agentx."
So this image by the name Agent x does not exist.
And that's basically the reason that it's failing.
So the correct answer is a docker image
with this name doesn't exist on Docker Hub.
Okay, now what does the Ready column
in the output of the kubectl get pods command indicate?
So if you go up here, you have the output
of the get pods command and here you see,
you have one slash one here and then you have one slash two.
So what does this mean, now we know that
this is the total containers within the pod
and this is basically, of course, the ones that are ready.
So at the moment, there's only one ready out of the two,
and we know that because this image does not exist,
and of course, that's why that container isn't ready yet.
So it's basically the total containers that are ready
slash just the total containers within the pod.
So that's total containers in the pod
or a running containers in the pod
slash total containers in the pod,
so that's the correct answer, okay,
so the next task is to delete the Web App.
So let's run the kubectl delete command
and delete the Web App pod, okay, that's deleted.
Let's go to the next one, create a new pod
with the name Redis and with the image, Redis123.
And the recommendation is to use a pod definition
yaml file and the image name is wrong.
Yeah, so the image name is wrong.
So we could do this in two ways.
So as we know, we could run the kubectl run command,
and the name of the pod is Redis
and the name of the image is Redis123.
You could basically just create it like this,
but we just wanna get familiar with generating the yaml file
and creating it with the pod definition file.
So let's use the dry-run option
and output the, the commands in a yaml format.
Okay, so, so this is basically
command and it says, "The dry-run command is deprecated,"
and it's replaced with the dry-run equals client,
So let's run that, okay, so this is the yaml file.
So let's direct it to a file, we'll call it Redis.yaml.
So we have the yaml definition for that pod in this file.
So we're now going to create the pod
using kubectl create or apply command.
So let's go with the create command.
Okay, so it's created, let's verify that it's created.
Okay, so it's created and it's in an error image pool state
because we have the wrong image name, so that's fine.
Let's click on Check, okay, successful.
And the last question for this lab is
to change the image on this pod to Redis
to fix that error that we, you know, purposefully created,
and to get the pod in a running state.
So again, there are two ways to do that.
You could run the kubectl edit command
to edit the the pod, or since we already
have the Redis file, we could just go in
and change the file and update it.
So let's go and do that.
Okay, I've changed the image name.
I'm just going to apply the changes.
Okay, let's check, add it.
Now, we'll talk about this error message later
when we talk about imperative commands
and the declarative way that we apply.
But for now, let's stick to the basics,
and then just make sure the change was successful,
all right, so when I run the kubectl get pods command,
we see that the pod is in a running state.
So run check, all right, okay, so that's the end
of the lab, let's hit the End Lab button,
and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Recap - ReplicaSets ---

Controllers are the brain behind Kubernetes.
They are the processes that monitor Kubernetes objects and respond accordingly.
In this lecture, we will discuss about one controller in particular and that is the replication controller.
So what is a replica and why do we need a replication controller?
Let's go back to our first scenario where we had a single pod running our application.
What if for some reason our application crashes and the pod fails, users will no longer be able to
access our application?
To prevent users from losing access to our application, we would like to have more than one instance
or pod running at the same time.
That way, if one fails, we still have our application running on the other one.
The replication controller helps us run multiple instances of a single pod in the Kubernetes cluster,
Thus providing high availability.
So does that mean you can't use a replication controller if you plan to have a single pod?
No.
Even if you have a single pod, replication controller can help by automatically bringing up a new pod
when the existing one fails.
Thus, the replication controller ensures that the specified number of pods are running at all times,
even if it's just 1 or 100.
Another reason we need replication controller is to create multiple pods to share the load across them.
For example, in this simple scenario, we have a single pod serving a set of users.
When the number of users increased, we deploy additional pod to balance the load across the two pods.
If the demand further increases, and if we were to run out of resources on the first node, we could
deploy additional pods across the other nodes in the cluster.
As you can see, the replication controller spans across multiple nodes in the cluster.
It helps us balance the load across multiple pods on different nodes, as well as scale our application
when the demand increases.
It's important to note that there are two similar terms replication controller and replica set.
Both have the same purpose, but they are not the same.
Replication controller is the older technology that is being replaced by replica set.
Replica set is the new recommended way to set up replication.
However, whatever we discussed in the previous few slides remain applicable to both these technologies.
There are minor differences in the way each works, and we will look at that in a bit.
As such, we will try to stick to replica sets in all of our demos and implementations going forward.
So let us now look at how we create a replication controller.
As with the previous lecture, we start by creating a replication controller definition file.
We will name it rc definition dot YAML.
As with any Kubernetes definition file, we have four sections the API, version, kind, metadata,
and spec.
The API version is specific to what we are creating.
In this case, replication controller is supported in Kubernetes API version v1.
So we will set it as v1.
The kind as we know is replication controller.
Under metadata we will add a name and we will call it Myapp dash RC.
And we will also add a few labels app and type and assign values to them.
So far, it has been very similar to how we created a pod in the previous section.
The next is the most crucial part of the definition file, and that is the specification written as
spec for any Kubernetes definition file.
The spec section defines what's inside the object we are creating.
In this case, we know that the replication controller creates multiple instances of a pod.
But what pod?
We create a template section under spec to provide a pod template to be used by the replication controller
to create replicas.
Now how do we define the pod template?
It's not that hard because we have already done that in the previous exercise.
Remember we created a Pod definition file in the previous exercise, we could reuse the contents of
the file.
To populate the templates section, move all the contents of the Pod definition file into the template
section of the replication controller, except for the first few lines which are API, version and kind.
Remember, whatever we move must be under the templates section, meaning they should be intended to
the right and have more spaces before them than the template line itself.
They should be children of the template section.
Looking at our file now, we now have two metadata sections.
One is for the replication controller and another for the pod.
And we have two spec sections, one for each.
We have nested two definition files together, the replication controller being the parent and the pod
definition being the child.
Now there is something still missing.
We haven't mentioned how many replicas we need in the replication controller.
For that, add another property to the spec called replicas and input the number of replicas you need
under it.
Remember that the template and replicas are direct children of spec sections, so they are siblings
and must be on the same vertical line, which means having equal number of spaces before them.
Once the file is ready, run the kubectl create command and input the file using the f parameter.
The replication controller is created when the replication controller is created.
It first creates the pods using the pod definition template as many as required, which is three in
this case.
To view the list of created replication controllers, run the kubectl get replication controller command
and you will see the replication controller listed.
We can also see the desired number of replicas or pods, the current number of replicas, and how many
of them are ready in the output.
If you would like to see the pods that were created by the replication controller, run the kubectl
get pods command and you will see three pods running.
Note that all of them are starting with the name of the replication controller, which is my app RC,
indicating that they are all created automatically by the replication controller.
What we just saw was the replication controller.
Let us now look at replica set.
It is very similar to replication controller as usual.
First we have API version kind metadata and spec.
The API version though is a bit different.
It is apps slash v1, which is different from what we had before.
For replication controller which was just v1.
If you get this wrong, you are likely to get an error that looks like this.
It would say no match for kind replica set, because the specified Kubernetes API version has no support
for replica set.
The kind would be replica set and we add name and labels in the metadata.
The specification section looks very similar to Replication controller.
It has a template section where we provide pod definition as before.
So I'm going to copy contents over from pod definition file.
And we have number of replicas which is set to three.
However there is one major difference between replication controller and replica set.
Replica set requires a selector definition.
The selector section helps the replica set identify what pods fall under it, but why would you have
to specify what pods fall under it if you have provided the contents of the pod definition file itself
in the template.
It's because replica set can also manage pods that were not created as part of the replica set creation.
Say for example, there were pods created before the creation of the replica set that matched labels
specified in the selector.
The replica set will also take those pods into consideration when creating the replicas.
I will elaborate this in the next slide, but before we get into that, I would like to mention that
the selector is one of the major differences between replication controller and replica set.
The selector is not a required field in case of a replication controller, but it is still available
when you skip it, as we did in the previous slide.
It assumes it to be the same as the labels provided in the Pod definition file.
In case of replica set, a user input is required for this property, and it has to be written in the
form of match labels as shown here.
The match labels selector simply matches the labels specified under it to the labels on the pods.
The replica set selector also provides many other options for matching labels that were not available
in a replication controller.
And as always, to create a replica set, run the kubectl create command, providing the definition
file as input.
And to see the created replicas run the kubectl get replica set command to get list of pods.
Simply run the kube control get pods command.
So what is the deal with labels and selectors?
Why do we label our pods and objects in Kubernetes?
Let us look at a simple scenario.
Say we deployed three instances of our front end web application has three parts.
We would like to create a replication controller or replica set to ensure that we have three active
pods at any time.
And yes, that is one of the use case of replica sets.
You can use it to monitor existing pods if you have them already created as it is in this example.
In case they were not created, the replica set will create them for you.
The role of the replica set is to monitor the pods and if any of them were to fail, deploy new ones.
The replica set is in fact a process that monitors the pods.
Now, how does the replica set know what pods to monitor?
There could be hundreds of other pods in the cluster running different applications.
This is where labeling our pods during creation comes in handy.
We could now provide these labels as a filter for replica set under the selector section, we use the
Match Labels filter and provide the same label that we used while creating the pods.
This way, the replica set knows which pods to monitor.
The same concept of labels and selectors is used in many other places throughout Kubernetes.
Now let me ask you a question along the same lines.
In the replica set specification section, we learned that there are three sections template, replicas,
and selector.
We need three replicas and we have updated our selector based on our discussion in the previous slide.
Say for instance, we have the same scenario as in the previous slide where we have three existing parts
that were created already.
And we need to create a replica set to monitor the pods to ensure there are a minimum of three running
at all times.
When the replication controller is created, it is not going to deploy a new instance of Pod.
As three of them with matching labels are already created.
In that case, do we really need to provide a template session in the replica set specification?
Since we are not expecting the replica set to create a new pod on deployment?
Yes we do.
Because in case one of the pods were to fail in the future, the replica set needs to create a new one
to maintain the desired number of pods.
And for the replica set to create a new pod, the template definition section is required.
Let's now look at how we scale the replica set.
Say we started with three replicas and the future.
We decided to scale to six.
How do we update our replica set to scale to six replicas?
Well, there are multiple ways to do it.
The first is to update the number of replicas in the definition file to six.
Then run the kubectl replace command to specify the same file using the f parameter, and that will
update the replica set to have six replicas.
The second way to do it is to run the kube control scale command.
Use the replicas parameter to provide the new number of replicas and specify the same file as input.
You may either input the definition file or provide the replica set name in the type name format.
However, remember that using the file name as input will not result in the number of replicas being
updated automatically in the file.
In other words, the number of replicas in the replica set definition file will still be three, even
though you scaled your replica set to have six replicas using the Kube control scale command and the
file as input.
There are also options available for automatically scaling the replica set based on load, but that
is an advanced topic and we will discuss it at a later time.
Let us now review the commands real quick.
The cube control create command as we know, is used to create a replica, set or basically any object
in Kubernetes depending on the file we are providing as input.
You must provide the input file using the dash f parameter.
Use the kube control.
Get command to see the list of replica sets created.
Use the cube control delete replica set command followed by the name of the replica set to delete the
replica set, and then we have the control replace command to replace or update the replica set, and
also the Kube control scale command to scale replica set simply from the command line without having
to modify the file.
That's it for this lecture.

--- Lab - ReplicaSets ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - ReplicaSets (optional) ---

-: Okay, so, in this video we're gonna go over
the solution for the lab on ReplicaSets.
So, let's start with the first question.
So, the first question is,
how many pods exist on the system?
So, just like before,
we are on the Kubectl get pods command
and there are no pods at the moment, so select zero.
The next question is
how many ReplicaSets exist on the system?
So we run the Kubectl get ReplicaSet command
and at zero.
So, some changes were made
and let's check the ReplicaSet now
and we see that there's one created.
So, let's just select one.
Now the question is
how many pods are desired in the new ReplicaSet?
So we know that from the output,
the desired number of pods
in the ReplicaSet is number four,
so let's select four.
Now, what is the image used to create the pods
in the new ReplicaSet?
So, we can find that out by looking at
the ReplicaSet in a bit more detail.
And for that we know we have to run
the Kubectl describe command.
And we're gonna run describe ReplicaSet
and then new ReplicaSet
and hit the the tab key to auto complete
the names of what you're looking for.
So, in this output, we see the pod template
and the image that's used, it's busy box 777.
So, that's the question
and here is the answer.
So busy box 777.
Now how many pods are ready in the new ReplicaSet?
So, if you look at the output here,
it says the number of pods that are ready are zero.
You can also see the same kind of here,
the pod status zero running.
So, it is zero.
Now, why do you think the pods are not ready?
So, if you look at this, you have,
so we'll need to look at one of these pods
in a bit more detail.
Of course it's obvious, but I mean,
I just wanna show you,
if you're not sure what the error is
then you've got to look at one of these pods
in a bit more detail.
So, let's run the Kubectl describe command
and look at any one of the pods in a bit more detail.
And you see it's basically because
it's failed to pull the image busy box 777
so the repository does not exist.
So there's no image by the name busy box 777,
that's a reason, so let's check that.
Now, the question is to delete any one of the pod.
Sorry, it's clear from the get pods command
and we've got to delete any one of these pods.
So, that's done.
So, how many pods exist now?
Let's run the get pods command again.
Let me see that there's still four pods running.
So, even though we deleted one
the one that we deleted is not here,
the one that starts with the WK,
but there are still four pods.
So, that exercise was just to show that
even if you delete a pod,
pod of ReplicaSet,
it's automatically going to recreate a new one.
And if you look at the age here,
you can see that the new one that was created
was just 17 seconds ago
as opposed to the other ones
that have been running for three minutes or more.
Okay, so why are there still four pods
even after you deleted it?
It's not because I didn't delete it properly,
it's not because you cannot delete a pod from a ReplicaSet,
it's because ReplicaSet ensures that
the desired number of pods always run.
So, the next one is to create a ReplicaSet
using the ReplicaSet definition file
located at root.
So let's look at where that is.
So there's one here
and there's an issue with the file,
so we have to try and fix it.
So, let's first try to create it.
So Kubectl create this F partial root,
ReplicaSet definition on that YAML.
So the error is that
it's unable to recognize this file,
no matches for kind ReplicaSet in version V1.
So, there's something wrong here.
Either the kind ReplicaSet is incorrect
or the version we want is incorrect.
So, let's look at the file
and we see that the APA version is V1
and kind is ReplicaSet.
And as we learned from the previous video,
the APA version is incorrect.
But if you're not sure what it is,
one way to find that out
is using the Kubectl explain command.
So run the Kubectl explain ReplicaSet command, sorry.
And here you can see the version.
So, the version is supposed to be apps/V1,
so that's the problem.
So let's go ahead and fix that apps/V1
and let's try and delete that again.
So, it is now being created.
Okay, so let's go to the next one.
So next task is to fix the issue in the second file
and create the ReplicaSet.
So let's try that.
Let's just first try to create it.
Okay, so it says there's an invalid value selector
does not match template labels.
So, let's take a look at the file here.
And we see the API version is apps/V1
which is correct,
the kind is ReplicaSet,
that also seems to be correct.
The metadata is the name
and then you have the spec section.
So you have replicas, you have selector.
So there is something wrong here,
which is why it didn't work.
Let's find that out.
So here it says, invalid value selector
does not match the template labels.
So, basically the issue here is that you have
the labels specified here called tier front end,
and then the label for the pod
that the ReplicaSet will create is engine X.
So, these two should match,
otherwise the ReplicaSet cannot basically manage
the pods that it creates.
So we've got to either change this to front end
or change this to engine X
but at the end, both of them should match.
So, let's change this to engine X,
save this file and run it again.
And that's now created.
Okay, let's go to the next one.
Now, we've got to delete
the two newly created ReplicaSets.
So, let's first look at the status right now.
You can also run just RS instead of ReplicaSet,
which is the short form.
And now we've got delete both of these ReplicaSets.
So, go to delete RS, ReplicaSet one and two.
You can also give multiple in the same command.
Okay, so that's done.
Now, fix the original ReplicaSet
to use the correct busy box image.
So, we know that the first one
which is we not only have one,
and we know that there are none of the pods
are in a ready state.
And we also know that because A,
the image name is incorrect,
so we've got to know fix that.
So for this, let's run the Kubectl edit command
and edit the new replica step.
And let's go into the container section
and change the image name to just busy box
and save that file
and let's check status of pods now
on the ReplicaSet,
so it's still zero.
Let's just give it some time for it to delete the old pods
and create new ones with the new image.
Write RS.
Okay, so when you update a ReplicaSet,
even though the image name is updated,
the pods are not automatically recreated, right?
So you have to either delete and recreate
the entire ReplicaSet
or you have to delete all the pods
so that the ReplicaSet creates new pods
with the new image name.
So, let's go back and let's look at pods.
And you see there's all still in the error state.
So, we're just going to go through and delete them.
We're gonna give the name of each one
and we'll just wait all of them to be terminated.
Let's run get pods again.
Okay, it's in a creating state
and it's in a running state.
Let's check the status of the ReplicaSet now
and you can see that they're all in a ready state.
Let's go to the next one.
Now we've got to scale the ReplicaSet to five pods.
So let's run the Kubectl scale command
and specify the number of replicas to five.
Let's check the status
and we can see that a new pod has been added.
We can also do that using the edit command.
So, we could do a Kubectl edit RS
and specify the name of the ReplicaSet,
and then go here
and just change this number to the desired number
and then save the file
but we're not gonna do that right now.
So that's done.
And now the task is
to scale the ReplicaSet down to two pods.
So, this time, let's use the other approach.
So let's edit new ReplicaSet.
Go to the number here and set it to two.
Let's check.
Okay, so that's it for this lab.
And next we'll look at deployments.

--- Deployments ---

In this lecture we will discuss about Kubernetes deployments.
For a minute.
Let us forget about pods and replica sets and other Kubernetes concepts, and talk about how you might
want to deploy your application in a production environment.
Say, for example, you have a web server that needs to be deployed in a production environment.
You need not one, but many such instances of the web server running for obvious reasons.
Secondly, whenever newer versions of application builds become available on the Docker registry, you
would like to upgrade your Docker instances seamlessly.
However, when you upgrade your instances, you do not want to upgrade all of them at once, as we just
did.
This may impact users accessing our applications, so you might want to upgrade them one after the other.
And that kind of upgrade is known as rolling updates.
Suppose one of the upgrades you performed resulted in an unexpected error, and you're asked to undo
the recent change You would like to be able to roll back the changes that were recently carried out.
Finally, say, for example, you would like to make multiple changes to your environment, such as
upgrading the underlying web server versions, as well as scaling your environment and also modifying
the resource allocations, etc. you do not want to apply each change immediately after the command is
run.
Instead, you would like to apply a path to your environment, make the changes and then resume so that
all the changes are rolled out together.
All of these capabilities are available with the Kubernetes deployments.
So far in this course, we discussed about pods, which deploy single instances of our application,
such as the web application.
In this case, each container is encapsulated in pods.
Multiple such pods are deployed using replication controllers or replica sets.
And then comes deployment, which is a Kubernetes object that comes higher in the hierarchy.
The deployment provides us with the capability to upgrade the underlying instances seamlessly using
rolling updates, undo changes, and pause and resume changes as required.
So how do we create a deployment?
As with the previous components, we first create a deployment definition file.
The contents of the deployment definition file are exactly similar to the replica set definition file,
except for the kind which is now going to be deployment.
If we walk through the contents of the file, it has an API version which is apps forward slash v1 metadata,
which has name and labels, and a spec that has template replicas and selector.
The template has a pod definition inside it.
Once the file is ready, run the kube control create command and specify the deployment definition file.
Then run the kube control.
Get deployments command to see the newly created deployment.
The deployment automatically creates a replica set.
So if you run the kube control get replica set command, you will be able to see a new replica set in
the name of the deployment.
The replica sets ultimately create paths, so if you run the cube Control get Pods command, you will
be able to see the pods with the name of the deployment and the replica set.
So far, there hasn't been much of a difference between replica set and deployments, except for the
fact that deployments created a new Kubernetes object called deployments.
We will see how to take advantage of the deployment using the use cases we discussed in the previous
slide in the upcoming lectures.
And one more note before we end this lecture to see all the created objects at once, run the cube control
get all command.
And in this case we can see that the deployment was created.
And then we have the replica set followed by three pods that we created as part of the deployment.
That's it for this lecture.
We will now head over to a demo and I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Certification Tip! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Deployments ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Deployments (optional) ---

Instructor: Okay, so in this lab
we'll get introduced to deployments.
So let us begin.
The first question is how many pods exist on the system?
So let's run, "Kubectl get pods" command
and we see there are no pods.
And, the next one is,
to identify the number of replica assets.
And there are none.
So the answer is zero.
Okay, and now it's a number of deployments.
So "deployments",
and that's the rule as well.
So it's a clean environment.
There are no pods, no replica sets
or deployments at the moment.
But some changes have been made.
So we're now check the deployments again.
Okay, so there is one deployment.
Okay, so the answer is one.
Now how many replica sets exist on the system?
Now we know that there's one deployment.
You do not know how many replica sets,
so let's just run the "get RS" command again to
check the number of replica sets.
So that's, that's one replica set.
So basically the deployment called
"front end deployment" has now created a replica set,
named "front end deployment dash" some, some numbers.
So that's the, the name
of the replica set that the deployment has created.
And then let's also check the number of pods now.
And there are four pods.
So basically that's what we're trying to understand here.
There was nothing before when we created a deployment.
It's created a replica set,
and then it's also created four pods.
Now, out of all the existing pods, how many are ready?
So if you look at the status here,
out of four pods, zero are ready.
So let's select zero.
And what is the image used to create the pods,
in the new deployment?
So let's take a look,
at one of the pods in a bit more detail.
Describe pod.
Round and deployment.
And maybe we'll just pick one of, one of the pod.
And we see the image used is "busy box 888".
So lets select that.
Now I know that there's a little bit
of repetition between different exercises here,
but this is mainly to get you familiar with,
some of these commands, right?
The get commands, and the describe commands.
And I promise that we have more fun stuff coming
up in the upcoming labs.
So we're just getting started.
Okay, so why do you think the deployment is not ready?
And as before, we know that it's
because the image "busy box 888" does not exist.
So let's select that.
Okay, so the next task is to create a new deployment
using the deployment definition one file in route.
So we're already in route, so let's check this file.
So let's try to create the deployment using the file.
Okay, and it didn't go.
It didn't go through,
so there is some kind of error.
So it says "No kind deployment is registered
for version apps slash B one".
So if we look at the file.
We see that the API version is "App slash B one",
which seems to be correct,
but the kind is deployment, which is also right.
But the issue is that it's case sensitive, right?
So the cap, the first character has to be a capital letter.
So that's kind of the standard for kind.
So the reason we have these kind
of exercises is just to help you understand and
and learn how to, you know,
know what the issue is when you come up across these errors.
So oftentimes you'll, you'll face these kind
of errors because of these kind of typos or you know
what's not being spelled correctly or not in the right case.
And you should know what those mean when you,
when you see these kind of errors.
So there's, there are possibilities that you may mix
up the API version or kind and we don't want to spend a lot
of time during the exam just not knowing what those are.
So that's the reason for these kind of exercises.
So I've just fixed that and let's proceed with the creation.
Okay, so that went through.
And the final task is to create
a new deployment with the below attributes.
So you have the name, you have the replicas,
and you have the image.
So to create an object, we know we can run the Kubectl
create command, and it's time we wanna create a deployment.
And let's take a look at the help for that.
And we see there are different options.
So you can create a deployment,
specify a name with an image.
So we have a name and we have an image.
But we also wanna specify the number of replicas.
So there is a command just for that.
So you have the name, the image, and the replica.
So that's what we're going to follow.
So on the Kubectl, create deployment command
and specify the name, which is "Httpd front end".
And,
the image,
is.
And it's good to create a practice of copying and pasting
from the question as that will also help you in the exam
if you are learning this,
for the purpose of giving the exam.
And the replicas is number three.
Okay, so, and also make it a practice,
always verify if what you did this right?
So Kubectl will get deployed.
We have the Httpd front end deployment,
and we also wanna make sure.
That it goes to a ready state.
Yep.
So three out of three are ready.
Check our work.
Okay.
So that's done,
and that's the end of this lab.

--- Services ---

In this lecture we will discuss about Kubernetes services.
Kubernetes services enable communication between various components within and outside of the application.
Kubernetes services helps us connect applications together with other applications or users.
For example, our application has groups of pods running various sections, such as a group for serving
a front end load to users, another group for running back end processes, and a third group connecting
to an external data source.
It is services that enable connectivity between these groups of pods.
Services enable the front end application to be made available to end users.
It helps communication between backend and frontend pods and helps in establishing connectivity to an
external data source.
Thus, services enable loose coupling between microservices in our application.
Let's take a look at one use case of services.
So far we talked about how pods communicate with each other through internal networking.
Let's look at some other aspects of networking in this lecture.
Let's start with external communication.
So we deployed our pod having a web application running on it.
How do we as an external user access the web page?
First of all let's look at the existing setup.
The Kubernetes node has an IP address and that is 192.168.1.2.
My laptop is on the same network as well, so it has an IP address 192.168.1.1.
The internal Pod network is in the range 10.244.0.0, and the pod has an IP 10.244.0.2.
Clearly I cannot ping or access the pod at address 244.0.2 as it's in a separate network.
So what are the options to see the web page?
First, if we were to SSH into the Kubernetes node at 192.168.1.2, from the node, we would be able
to access the pods web page by doing a curl, or if the node has a GUI, we would fire up a browser
and see the web page in a browser following the HTTP 10.244.0.2.
But this is from inside the Kubernetes node, and that's not what I really want.
I want to be able to access the web server from my own laptop, without having to SSH into the node,
and simply by accessing the IP of the Kubernetes node.
So we need something in the middle to help us map requests to the node from our laptop, through the
node to the pod running the web container.
This is where the Kubernetes service comes into play.
The Kubernetes service is an object just like pods, replica sets, or deployments that we worked with
before.
One of its use cases is to listen to a port on the node, and forward requests on that port to a port
on the pod running the web application.
This type of service is known as a node port service, because the service listens to a port on the
node and forward requests to the pods.
There are other kinds of services available which we will now discuss.
The first one is what we discussed already.
Node port where the service makes an internal pod accessible on a port on the node.
The second is cluster IP and in this case the service creates a virtual IP inside the cluster to enable
communication between different services, such as a set of front end servers to a set of back end backend
servers.
The third type is a load balancer, where it provisions a load balancer for our application in supported
cloud providers.
A good example of that would be to distribute load across the different web servers in your front end
tier.
We will now look at each of these in a bit more detail along with some demos.
In this lecture we will discuss about the Nodeport Kubernetes service.
Getting back to Nodeport a few slides back, we discussed about external access to the application.
We said that a service can help us by mapping a port on the node to a port on the pod.
Let's take a closer look at the service.
If you look at it, there are three ports involved.
The port on the pod where the actual web server is running is 80, and it is referred to as the target
port because that is where the service forwards the request to the second port is the port on the service
itself.
It is simply referred to as the port.
Remember these terms are from the viewpoint of the service.
The service is in fact like a virtual server inside the node.
Inside the cluster.
It has its own IP address, and that IP address is called the cluster IP of the service.
And finally we have the port on the node itself which we use to access the web server externally.
And that is known as the node port.
As you can see it is set to 30,008.
That is because node ports can only be in a valid range, which by default is from 30,000 to 32,767.
Let's now look at how to create the service.
Just like how we created a deployment replica set or pod in the past.
We will use a definition file to create a service.
The high level structure of the file remains the same as before.
We have the API version kind, metadata and spec sections.
The API version is going to be v1.
The kind is of course service.
The metadata will have a name and that will be the name of the service.
It can have labels, but we don't need that for now.
Next we have spec and as always, this is the most crucial part of the file as this is where we will
be defining the actual services.
And this is the part of a definition file that differs between different objects in the spec section
of a service.
We have type and ports.
The type refers to the type of service we are creating.
As discussed before, it could be cluster, IP node, port or load balancer.
In this case, since we are creating a node port, we will set it as node port.
The next part of a spec is ports.
This is where we input information regarding what we discussed on the left side of the screen.
The first type of port is the target port, which we will set to 80.
The next one is simply port, which is the port on the service object.
And we will set that to 80 as well.
The third is node port, which we will set to 30,008 or any number in the valid range.
Remember that out of these the only mandatory field is port.
If you don't provide a target port, it is assumed to be the same as port.
And if you don't provide a node port, a free port in the valid range between 30,000 and 32,767 is automatically
allocated.
Also note that ports is an array, so note the dash under the ports section that indicate the first
element in the array.
You can have multiple such port mappings within a single service.
So we have all the information in.
But something is really missing.
There is nothing here in the definition file that connects the service to the pod.
We have simply specified the target port, but we didn't mention the target port on which pod.
There could be hundreds of other pods with web services running on port 80.
So how do we do that?
As we did with the replica sets previously, and a technique that you will see very often in Kubernetes.
We will use labels and selectors to link these together.
We know that the pod was created with a label.
We need to bring that label into the service definition file.
So we have a new property in the specs section and that is called selector.
Just like in a replica set and deployment definition, files under the selector provide a list of labels
to identify the pod.
For this, refer to the pod definition file used to create the pod.
Pull the labels from the pod definition file and place it under the selector section.
This links the service to the pod.
Once done, create the service using the kube control.
Create command and input the service definition file and there you have the service created.
To see the created service, run the kube control.
Get service's command that lists the service, the cluster IP and the mapped ports.
The type is node port as we created and the port on the node is set to 30,008, because that's the port
that we specified in the definition file.
We can now use this port to access the web service using Curl or a web browser.
So curl to 1921681.2, which is the IP of the node.
And then I use the port 30,008 to access the web server.
So far we talked about a service mapped to a single pod, but that's not the case all the time.
What do you do when you have multiple pods in a production environment?
You have multiple instances of your web application running for high availability and load balancing
purposes.
In this case, we have multiple similar pods running our web application.
They all have the same labels with a key app and set to a value of my app.
The same label is used as a selector during the creation of the service.
So when the service is created, it looks for a matching pod with the label and finds three of them.
The service then automatically selects all the three pods as endpoints to forward the external requests
coming from the user.
You don't have to do any additional configuration to make this happen.
And if you're wondering what algorithm it uses to balance the load across the three different pods,
it uses a random algorithm.
Thus, the service acts as a built in load balancer to distribute load across different pods.
And finally, let's look at what happens when the pods are distributed across multiple nodes.
In this case, we have the web application on pods on separate nodes in the cluster.
When we create a service without us having to do any additional configuration, Kubernetes automatically
creates a service that spans across all the nodes in the cluster and maps the target port to the same
node port on all the nodes in the cluster.
This way, you can access your application using the IP of any node in the cluster and using the same
port number, which in this case is 30,008.
As you can see, using the IP of any of these nodes, and I'm trying to curl to the same port and the
same port is made available on all the nodes part of the cluster.
To summarize, in any case, whether it be a single pod on a single node, multiple pods on a single
node, or multiple pods on multiple nodes, the service is created exactly the same without you having
to do any additional steps during the service creation.
When pods are removed or added, the service is automatically updated, making it highly flexible and
adaptive.
Once created, you won't typically have to make any additional configuration changes.
That's it for this lecture.
Head over to the demo and I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Services Cluster IP ---

In this lecture we will discuss about the Kubernetes Service cluster IP.
A full stack web application typically has different kinds of pods hosting different parts of an application.
You may have a number of pods running a front end web server, another set of pods running a back end
server, a set of pods running a key value store like Redis, and another set of pods.
Maybe running a persistent database like MySQL.
The web front end server needs to communicate to the backend servers, and the backend servers need
to communicate to the database as well as the Redis services, etc..
So what is the right way to establish connectivity between these services or tiers of my application?
The pods all have an IP address assigned to them, as we can see on the screen, but these IPS as we
know, are not static.
These pods can go down any time, and new pods are created all the time.
And so you cannot rely on these IP addresses for internal communication between the application.
Also, what if the first front end pod at ten 244 .0.3 need to connect to a back end backend service.
Which of the three will it go to?
And who makes that decision?
A Kubernetes service can help us group the pods together, and provide a single interface to access
the pods in a group.
For example, a service created for the backend pods will help group all the backend pods together and
provide a single interface for other pods to access this service.
The requests are forwarded to one of the pods under the service randomly.
Similarly, create additional services for Redis and allow the backend pods to access the Redis systems
through the service.
This enables us to easily and effectively deploy a microservices based application on Kubernetes cluster.
Each layer can now scale or move as required without impacting communication between the various services.
Each service gets an IP and name assigned to it inside the cluster, and that is the name that should
be used by other paths to access the service.
This type of service is known as cluster IP.
To create such a service, as always, use a definition file in the service definition file.
First use the default template which has API version kind metadata and spec.
The API version is v1, kind is service and we will give a name to our service.
We will call it backend.
Under specification we have type and ports.
The type is cluster IP.
In fact cluster IP is the default type.
So even if you didn't specify it, it will automatically assume the type to be cluster IP.
Under ports we have a target port and port.
The target port is the port where the backend is exposed, which in this case is 80, and the port is
where the service is exposed, which is 80 as well.
To link the service to a set of ports, we use selector.
We will refer to the pod definition file and copy the labels from it and move it under selector, and
that should be it.
We can now create the service using the kube control create command and then check its status using
the Kube control Get Services command.
The service can be accessed by other pods using the cluster IP or the service name.

--- Services - Loadbalancer ---

Let us now look at another type of service known as the load balancer type.
So we have seen the node port service that helps us make an external facing application available on
a port on the worker nodes.
So let's turn our focus to the front end applications which are the voting app and the result app.
Now we know that these pods are hosted on the worker nodes in a cluster.
So let's say we have a four node cluster.
And to make the applications accessible to external users we create the services of type node port.
Now the services with type node port help in receiving traffic on the ports on the nodes and routing
the traffic to the respective pods.
But what URL would you give your end users to access the applications?
You could access any of these two applications using IP of any of the nodes and the port the service
is exposed on.
So that would be for IP and port combinations for the voting app and for IP and port combination for
the result app.
So note that even if your pods are only hosted on two of the nodes, they will still be accessible on
the IPS of all the nodes in the cluster.
Say the pods for the voting app are only deployed on the nodes with IP 70 and 71.
There would still be accessible on the ports of all the nodes in the cluster.
So that's how a service is configured.
So you would share these URLs to your users to access the application.
But that's not what the end users want.
They need a single URL like example voting app.com or the example app to access the application.
So how do you achieve that?
Now one way to achieve this is to create a new VM for load balancer purpose and install and configure
a suitable load balancer on it like HAProxy.
Or nginx etc. then configure the load balancer to route traffic to the underlying nodes.
Now setting all of that external load balancing and then maintaining and managing that can be a tedious
task.
However, if we were on a supported cloud platform like Google Cloud or AWS or Azure, I could leverage
the native load balancer of that cloud platform.
Kubernetes has support for integrating with the native load balancers of certain cloud providers, and
configuring and configuring that for us.
So all you need to do is set the service type for the front end services to load balancer instead of
Nodeport.
Now remember that this only works with supported cloud platforms.
And so GCP, AWS and Azure are definitely supported.
So if you set the type of service to load balancer in an unsupported environment like VirtualBox or
you know any other environments, then it would have the same effect as setting it to Nodeport where
you know the services are exposed on a high end port on the nodes.
Uh, there.
It just won't do any kind of, uh, external load balancer configuration.
Right?
So later on, um, when we walk through, uh, the demos of deploying our application on cloud platforms,
um, we will see this in action.
Right?
So that's it for now.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Lab- Services ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Services (optional) ---

-: Hey, in this video we're going to walk
over the solution for the lab on services.
So the first question is
how many services exist on the system?
So we're gonna run the kubectl get service command
or you could also run the kubectl get SVC command.
It's a short for service
and we can see that there's just one service.
So select that.
This is a default service created by Kubernetes.
Okay.
So what is the type of the default Kubernetes service?
If you look at the type, here, we see that it's cluster IP.
So let's select cluster IP.
We'll look at what this service is
in particular later when we talk about
the Kubernetes architecture,
the API server in more detail.
And for now, let's just consider it as any other service.
So what is the target port configured
on the Kubernetes service?
So for this, you've got to look
at the service in more detail.
So we're gonna do a kubectl describe node
and we're gonna describe the service named Kubernetes.
So here we see the port details,
So the port is 443, the target port is 6443.
So the question is, what is a target port?
So we'll select 6 4 43.
Okay, how many labels are configured
on the Kubernetes service?
So if you look at this right here, so there are two labels.
Component is API server and the provider's Kubernetes.
So this
this service is basically the Kubernetes API server.
Uh, we'll discuss more about the API server
and this service specifically when we learn
about the API server in detail.
And then the CK of course,
when we get to that.
So for now, the answer is two.
Okay? The next question is how many endpoints are attached
on the Kubernetes service?
So for now, we have no idea,
uh, what the service is
since this service was already created.
We don't really know what it is.
So we are kind of exploring and finding out more about it.
But one thing if we want to look
at right here and understand is how many pods
this, is the service directing traffic to?
So that's what you can see here
in the endpoints section here.
So endpoints, it says there's, there's this one IPN port.
So that's, that's one endpoint.
If there are multiple pods
that the service is directing traffic to
then there would be multiple ports here.
Let me quickly explain what endpoints are
because we have not really discussed about endpoints.
Okay? So here we have a service
and uh, three pods.
And what we do usually is when we create a pod
we know that it has a label to it.
So let's say for example, it's set
to app
and FE for front end or something.
And the way that we create a service in order to
direct traffic to these pods is we,
uh, provide the same labels
as selectors to the service.
And then what the service does is it identifies
all the pods with the same label
and then directs traffic to those pods.
So once it identifies the pod with the labels
that's when the service has these endpoints.
So from a, from the perspective
of a service endpoints are basically these, the, the pods.
The pods that the service has identified that is
going to direct traffic to based on the selector
specified on the service and the labels on the pods.
Now, when we create a service
for a set of pods that we might think
that depending on the label and the selector, we specified
the service is going to direct traffic to those pods
but it might be possible
that we have another pod which we accidentally created
with the same kind of label.
So the service is then going to direct traffic
to that pod as well.
So, and that's when, when we look at the
the output of the kubectl describe command
that we can identify the additional endpoints apart
from what we, what we thought we had configured, right?
So we're gonna see, when you look
at kubectl describe command for the service
we're gonna see that there are four endpoints.
But in fact, the, our application was,
had a replica set perhaps that just had three endpoints
or three pods.
So that's where this, the endpoint can help.
And just to, just to give you a bit context.
So let's say we create,
we have a single pod and we create a service,
we set a label to FE,
but we accidentally set
the selector to say FR something that's different.
And then when we try to access the service
we're not able to get through to the application.
And that's when we, you look at the, the description
of the service and you realize that the endpoints are zero.
So that means the service has not identified any pods
right? So, and then, then that's when we can look
at the labels and selectors in, in
in more detail to identify the root cause.
So,
that's what endpoints are.
It's, it's nothing, but it's a specification of all the pods
that that particular service has identified based
on the selectors and the labels set on those pods.
-: Okay? So in this case,
this particular service has just one endpoint.
So we're gonna select one here.
Okay? The next question is, how many deployments exist
on the system now in the current default name space?
So let's
identify.
Boy, there's just one deployment so we're gonna select one.
Okay? So the next question is
what is the image used to create the pods in the deployment?
So we're gonna look
at the deployment in a bit more detail
and see the images code cloud slash simple web app red.
So that's this one.
Okay. Are you able to access the web app UI?
Try accessing the web application UI using the tab
at the top.
So, there's the link here and clicking on it
we see that it gives us a bad gateway error.
So the answer is no
we are not able to access the web app UI.
So, and that's really because there's no service, right?
So we, we have to create a new service to access the web
web application using the service definition dot yamo file.
So there is a service definition dot yamo file here
and we look at it.
So this is basically a kind
of a file with the basic framework to create a service.
So we'll,
we'll use that
and update the details that are given here, right?
So we're gonna set it, give it a name
so the node port and all the different ports,
also specify the selector.
Now if you're not sure about, you know
getting this framework, you could go
to the Kubernetes documentation pages,
search for service and select service,
and here you kind of get a sample that you can then copy
and use.
So we will talk about imperative ways
for commands to create service in, in the upcoming lectures.
For now, let's just go with this.
So the name is web app service.
Type is Node port.
Target port is 8080.
Port is 8080.
North port is 30080,
and the selector name is Simple Web App.
(typing)
Okay, let's create
(typing)
that service.
Okay, that's done.
Let's check.
Yeah, let's try to access this now.
Okay, so that's working.
So, as I said,
in the upcoming lectures,
there is a section where we talk about imperative commands
and we'll discuss how we can create a service.
So there are different ways of creating a service
and we'll discuss about that when we get there.
For now, that's the end of this lab.

--- Namespaces ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we will discuss about namespaces in Kubernetes.
Let us begin with an analogy.
There are two boys named Mark to differentiate them from each other.
We call them by their last names, Smith and Williams.
They come from different houses, of course, the Smiths and the Williams.
There are other members in the house.
The individuals within the house address each other simply by their first names.
For example, the father addresses Mark simply as Mark.
However, if the father wishes to address the mark in the other house, he would use the full name.
Someone outside of these houses would also use the full name to refer to the boys or anyone within these
houses.
Each of these houses have their own set of rules that defines who does what.
Each of these houses have their own set of resources that they can consume.
Now let's get back to Kubernetes.
These houses correspond to namespaces in Kubernetes.
So far in this course, we've created objects such as pods, deployments, and services in our cluster.
Whatever we have been doing, we have been doing within a namespace.
We were inside a house all this while.
This namespace is known as the default namespace, and it is created automatically by Kubernetes.
When the cluster is first set up, Kubernetes creates a set of pods and services for its internal purpose,
such as those required by the networking solution, the DNS service, etc. to isolate these from the
user and to prevent you from accidentally deleting or modifying these services, Kubernetes creates
them under another namespace created at cluster startup Dub named kube system.
A third namespace created by Kubernetes automatically is called kube public.
This is where resources that should be made available to all users are created.
If your environment is small or you're learning and playing around with a small cluster, you shouldn't
really have to worry about namespaces.
You could continue to work in the default namespace.
However, as of when you grow and use a Kubernetes cluster for enterprise or production purposes, you
may want to consider the use of namespaces.
You can create your own namespaces as well.
For example, if you wanted to use the same cluster for both dev and production environment, but at
the same time isolate the resources between them, you can create a different namespace for each of
them.
That way, while working in the dev environment, you don't accidentally modify resources in production.
Each of these namespaces can have its own set of policies that define who can do what.
You can also assign quota of resources to each of these namespaces.
That way, each namespace is guaranteed a certain amount and does not use more than its allowed limit.
Going back to the default namespace that we have been working on, just like how the members within
a house refer to each other by their first names, the resources within a namespace can refer to each
other simply by their names.
In this case, the webapp pod can reach the DB service simply using the hostname db service.
If required, the webapp pod can reach a service in another namespace as well.
For this, you must append the name of the namespace to the name of the service.
For example, for the web pod in the default namespace to connect to the database in the dev environment
or namespace, use the service name dot namespace svc cluster dot local format that would be DB service,
dot dev, dot svc cluster local.
You're able to do this because when the service is created, a DNS entry is added automatically in this
format.
Looking closely at the DNS name of the service, the last part, cluster dot local, is the default
domain name of the Kubernetes cluster.
SVC is the subdomain for service, followed by the namespace and then the name of the service itself.
Let us now look at some of the operational aspects of namespaces.
Let us start with a kube control commands.
For example, this command is used to list all the pods, but it only lists the pods in the default
namespace.
To list pods in another namespace, use the namespace option in the command along with the name of the
namespace, in this case Kube system.
Here I have a Pod definition file.
When you create a pod using this file, the pod is created in the default namespace.
To create the pod in another namespace, use the namespace option.
If you want to make sure that this pod gets created in the dev environment all the time, even if you
don't specify the namespace in the command line, you can move the namespace definition into the pod
definition file like this.
Under the metadata section, this is a good way to ensure your resources are always created in the same
namespace.
So how do you create a new namespace?
Like any other object, use a namespace definition file.
The API version is v1, kind is namespace, and under metadata specify the name.
In this case, dev.
Run the cube control create command to create the namespace.
Another way to create a namespace is by simply running the command cube control create namespace followed
by the name of the namespace.
Now say we are working in three namespaces, as we discussed before.
By default we are in the default namespace, which is why we can see the resources inside the default
namespace using the kube control get pods command.
And to view those in the dev namespace, we have to use the namespace option.
But what if we want to switch to the dev namespace permanently, so that we don't have to specify the
namespace option anymore?
Well, in that case, use the kube control config command to set the namespace in the current context
to dev.
You can then simply run the kube control get pods command without the namespace option to list pods
in the dev environment, but you will need to specify the option for other environments such as default
or prod.
Similarly, you can switch to the prod namespace the same way.
Finally, to view pods in all namespaces, use the all namespaces option in the command.
This will list all the pods in all of the namespaces, taking a closer look at the command.
This command first identifies the current context and then sets the namespace to the desired one for
that current context.
Well, contexts are used to manage multiple clusters and multiple environments from the same management
system.
It is a totally separate topic to discuss and requires its own lecture, so we will discuss context
in another lecture.
To limit resources in a namespace, create a resource quota to create one.
Start with a definition file for resource quota.
Specify the namespace for which you want to create the quota and then under spec provide your limits
such as ten pods, ten CPU units, ten GB bytes of memory, etc..
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Coding exercises section and practice working with namespaces and I will see you in
the next lecture.

--- Lab - Namespaces ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Namespaces (optional) ---

-: Okay, in this video we will go
over the solution for the lab on name spaces.
Okay, so the first question is
how many name spaces exist on the system?
For this, we run the kubectl get name spaces command.
You could also run the kubectl get NS command.
That's the short form for name spaces.
Okay, so the question is
to identify the number of name spaces.
So you have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.
So there are 10 name spaces.
Okay, the next question is how many pods exist
in the research name space?
So to look at the pods we know that we run
the kubectl get pods command.
But to look into a particular name space
we specify the name space option.
And the name space we got to look to is research.
So that's the research name space.
So there are two pods.
Another way to do this
if you don't wanna type the full option
is to just use the dash N and,
that's two.
Okay, so the next question is create a pod
in the finance name space using the spec Q and below.
So we know that to create a pod,
we run the kubectl run command.
Then we put the name, which happens to be Redis
and the image is Redis as well.
But we don't want to create it in the default name space.
So if I run this command, it's going to create the pod
in the default name space, but we wanna create it
in the finance name space.
So you've got to use the name space option
and then specify finance.
Okay and then we run the, yeah, the pod command,
again in the finance name space to make sure
that the pod is created.
Yep.
Okay, so the next question is,
which name space has the blue pod in it?
So we know that running the get NS command lists
all the name spaces.
And one thing we could do is just go through each name space
as we did here and identify and look for that pod.
Or another option is we do have a command called
kubectl get pods dash, dash all name spaces.
And this lists the pods in all name space.
So you have the name space here and you have the pods here.
And from here we can identify
the blue pod and it's in the marketing name space.
Another option is, instead of typing in all name spaces
we just do a dash capital A.
And that also gives you the same output.
So blue is in the marketing name space.
Okay, so the blue application is available for us to access
and it can be accessed using the link and by your terminal.
So let's click on that.
So this is the blue application and
it's a simple like web application that can be used
for connectivity tests, really nothing.
So let's click on, okay, and the question is
what DNS name should the blue application use to
access the database DB service in its own name space?
So if we run the kubectl get pods command
in the marketing name space
we see that it has the blue application,
there's a Redis DB
but I believe there's also
there's a service called DB service
within the same name space.
So how does the blue application access the DB service?
So we've learned that if it's within the same name space
an application can access another service,
just by using its name.
So we can test it in this interface.
So it's DB service and the port number is 6379.
So that's where it is.
Let's click on test, and that's success.
So you could, we could just refer
to it as DB service if it's within your own name space.
Now the next question is
what DNS name should the blue application use to
access the database DB service in the DEV name space?
So there's another name space called DEV
and there's a service there too.
So there are two services by the name DB service.
One is in the marketing and the other is
in the other is in the DEV name space.
So an application blue
in the marketing name space can access the application
or service in the DEV namespace.
But for that you've got to use the full address
of that service.
That includes the namespace service.
So that's DB service dot DEV that's the name space.
And then you have SVC dot cluster dot local
and we can try that here.
So DEV is a name space.
SVC dot cluster dot local click on test.
That's correct.
So let's select that.
Yep, and that's the correct answer, right?
That's the end of the lab.

--- Imperative vs Declarative ---

1
In this lecture, we will discuss
2
about imperative and declarative approaches in Kubernetes.
3
Towards the end of this lecture,
4
we will talk about some tips
5
that you can use in the exam.
6
So far, we have seen different ways of creating
7
and managing objects in Kubernetes.
8
We created objects directly by running commands
9
as well as using object configuration files.
10
Now, in the Infrastructure as Code world,
11
there are different approaches in managing
12
the infrastructure, and they're classified into imperative
13
and declarative approaches.
14
Let's understand these with an analogy.
15
Let's say you wanna visit a friend's house
16
located at Street B.
17
Now, in the past, you would hire a taxi
18
and give step-by-step instructions to the driver
19
on how to reach the destination,
20
like take right to street B,
21
then take left to go to street C,
22
and then take another left, and then right to go to Street D
23
and stop at the house.
24
Specifying what to do
25
and how to do more importantly, is the imperative approach.
26
On the other hand, today when you book a cab, say
27
through Uber, you just specify the final destination,
28
like drive to Tom's house,
29
and this is the declarative approach.
30
In this case, we're not giving step-by-step instructions.
31
Instead, we're just specifying the final destination.
32
We're declaring the final destination,
33
and the system figures out the right path
34
to reach the destination.
35
Specifying what to do,
36
not how to do is the declarative approach.
37
So what's that got to do with what we are learning?
38
In the Infrastructure as Code world,
39
an example of an imperative approach
40
of provisioning infrastructure would be a set
41
of instructions written step by step,
42
such as provisioning a VM named a web server,
43
installing the Nginx software on it,
44
editing configuration file to use port 8080
45
and setting the path to web files, downloading source code
46
of repositories from Git,
47
and finally starting the Nginx server.
48
So here we're saying what is required
49
and also how to get things done.
50
In the declarative approach, we declare our requirements.
51
For instance, all we say is that we need a VM
52
by the name Web Server with the internet software on it,
53
with a port set to 8080
54
and the path to the web files defined
55
and where the source code of the application is stored,
56
and everything that's needed to be done
57
to get this infrastructure in in place is done
58
by the system or the software.
59
You don't have to provide step-by-step instructions.
60
Orchestration tools like Ansible, Puppet or Chef
61
or Terraform fall into this category.
62
In the imperative approach,
63
what happens if the first time only half
64
of the steps were executed?
65
What happens if you provide the same set
66
of instructions again to complete the remaining steps?
67
To handle such situations,
68
there will be many additional steps involved, such as checks
69
to see if something already exists
70
and taking an action based on the results of that check.
71
For instance, while provisioning a VM,
72
what would happen if a VM
73
by the name Web Server already exists?
74
The same goes with creating a database or importing data.
75
Should it fail or should it continue
76
since the VM is already there?
77
What if we decide to upgrade the version of software
78
to say Nginx 1.18 in the future?
79
It should be as simple
80
as updating the version of Nginx in the configuration file,
81
and the system should take care of the rest.
82
Ideally, the system should be intelligent enough to know
83
what has already been done
84
and apply the necessary changes only.
85
That's the declarative way of doing things.
86
In the Kubernetes world, the imperative way
87
of managing infrastructure is using commands
88
like the kubectl run command to create a pod,
89
the kubectl create deployment command
90
to create a deployment, the kubectl expose command
91
to create a service to expose a deployment,
92
and the kubectl edit command may be used
93
to edit an existing object.
94
For scaling a deployment or replica set,
95
use the kubectl scale command,
96
and updating the image on a deployment,
97
we use the kubectl set image command.
98
Now, we have also used object configuration files
99
to manage objects
100
such as creating an object
101
using the kubectl create -f command with the F option
102
to specify the object configuration file,
103
and editing an object using the kubectl, replace command
104
and deleting an object using the kubectl delete command.
105
All of these are imperative approaches
106
to managing objects in Kubernetes.
107
We're saying exactly how to bring the infrastructure
108
to our needs by creating, updating or deleting objects.
109
The declarative approach would be to create a set of files
110
that defines the expected state of the applications
111
and services on a Kubernetes cluster,
112
and with a single kubectl apply command,
113
Kubernetes should be able to read the configuration files
114
and decide by itself what needs to be done
115
to bring the infrastructure to the expected state.
116
So in the declarative approach,
117
you will run the kubectl apply command for creating,
118
updating or deleting an object.
119
The apply command will look at the existing configuration
120
and figure out what changes need to be made to the system.
121
So let's look at these in a bit more detail.
122
Now, within the imperative approach, there are two ways.
123
The first is using imperative commands such as the run,
124
create or expose commands to create new objects
125
and the edit, scale and set commands
126
to update existing objects.
127
Now, these commands help in quickly creating
128
or modifying objects as we don't have to deal
129
with YAML files.
130
And these are helpful during the certification exams.
131
However, there are limited in functionality
132
and will require forming long
133
and complex commands for advanced use cases
134
such as creating a multi-container pod or deployment.
135
Secondly, these commands are run once and forgotten.
136
They're only available in the session history of the user
137
who ran these commands,
138
so it's hard for another person to figure out
139
how these objects were created.
140
So it is hard to keep track of.
141
And so it's difficult to work with these commands in large
142
or complex environments.
143
And that's where managing objects
144
with object configuration files can help.
145
Creating object definition files or configuration files
146
or manifest files, as it's also called,
147
can help us write down exactly what we need the object
148
to look like in a YAML format
149
and use the kubectl create command to create the object.
150
We now have the YAML file with us always,
151
and it can be saved in a code repository like Git.
152
We can put together a change review
153
and approval process around these files
154
so that a change made is reviewed and approved
155
before it is applied to a production environment.
156
In the future, if a change is to be made, for instance,
157
editing the image name to another version,
158
there are different ways to go about it.
159
One way is to use the kubectl edit command
160
and specify the object name.
161
So when this command is run,
162
it opens a YAML definition file similar to the one you used
163
to create the object,
164
but with some additional fields such as the status fields
165
that you see here, which are used
166
to store the status of the pod.
167
This is not the file you used to create the object.
168
This is a similar pod definition file
169
within the Kubernetes memory.
170
You can make changes to this file and save and quit,
171
and those changes will be applied to the live object.
172
However, note that there is a difference
173
between the live object
174
and the definition file that you have locally.
175
The change you made using the kubectl edit command
176
is not really recorded anywhere.
177
After the change is applied, you're only left
178
with your local definition file,
179
which in fact has the old image name in it.
180
In the future, say you
181
or a teammate decide to make a change to this object
182
unaware that a change was made
183
using the kubectl edit command,
184
when the new change is applied, the previous change
185
to the image is lost.
186
So you can use the kubectl edit command
187
if you are making a change
188
and you're sure that you're not going
189
to rely on the object configuration file in the future.
190
A better approach to that is to first edit the local version
191
of the object configuration file with the required changes.
192
That is by updating image name here,
193
and then running the kubectl replace command
194
to update the object.
195
This way, going forward, the changes made are recorded
196
and can be tracked as part of the change review process.
197
So at times you may want to completely delete
198
and recreate objects.
199
In such cases, you may run the same command,
200
but with the force option like this.
201
Now, this is still the imperative approach
202
because you're still instructed Kubernetes how to create
203
or update these objects.
204
First, you run the kubectl create command
205
to create the object, and then you run the replace command
206
to replace the object or delete command
207
to delete the object.
208
And what if you run the create command
209
if the object already exists?
210
Well, then it would fail
211
with an error that says the pod already exists.
212
When you update an object, you should always make sure
213
that the object exists first
214
before running the replace command.
215
If an object does not exist, the replace command fails
216
with an error message.
217
So the imperative approach is very taxing for you
218
as an administrator as you must always be aware
219
of the current configurations
220
and perform checks to make sure that things are in place
221
before making a change.
222
The declarative approach is where you use
223
the same object configuration files
224
that we've been working on, but instead of the create
225
or replace commands, we use the kubectl apply command
226
to manage objects.
227
The kubectl apply command is intelligent enough
228
to create an object if it doesn't already exist.
229
If there are multiple object configuration files
230
as you would usually, then you may specify a directory
231
as the path instead of a single file.
232
That way, all the objects are created at once.
233
Now, when changes are to be made,
234
we simply update the object configuration file
235
and run the kubectl apply command again,
236
and this time it knows that the object exists,
237
and so it only updates the object with the new changes.
238
So it never really throws an error
239
that says the object already exists
240
or the updates cannot be applied.
241
It'll always figure out the right approach
242
to updating the object.
243
So going forward, any changes made on the application,
244
whether they're updating images
245
or fields of existing configuration files
246
or adding new configuration files altogether
247
for new objects, all we do is simply update
248
our local directory with the changes,
249
and then the kubectl apply command take care of the rest.
250
So we will discuss more
251
about how the kubectl apply command works exactly
252
in the backend in the next lecture.
253
For now, let me give you some tips as part of the exam.
254
So from an exam perspective,
255
you could use the imperative approach to save time
256
as much as possible.
257
For example, if a question is to just create a pod
258
or a deployment with a given image, then one
259
of these imperative commands
260
can help you achieve that quickly.
261
So it's important to practice the imperative commands.
262
If you need to edit a property of an existing object,
263
then using the kubectl edit command
264
may be the quickest way, right?
265
If you have a complex requirement for, say, for example,
266
that requires multiple containers, environment variables,
267
commands, init containers, et cetera,
268
then using an object configuration file
269
to create the object would be preferred.
270
This way, if you see that you made a mistake,
271
you can easily update the file and apply it again,
272
and using the kubectl apply command in that case
273
would be a better option.
274
So for more details on the different approaches
275
to managing a Kubernetes cluster, get yourself familiarized
276
with the Kubernetes documentation pages,
277
and in the upcoming lab exercises, try
278
to use imperative approach in solving questions.
279
Well, I'll see you in the next lecture.

--- Certification Tips - Imperative Commands with Kubectl ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Kubectl Explain Command ---

Let us now look at kubectl explain command.
So there is a lot you can learn about resources and fields without ever leaving the terminal.
To list all resources you can simply run kubectl api resources command.
This is especially useful when you can't find a resource on the documentation pages.
So if you ever forget a resource name or its short name, or you're not sure of the underlying version
of the API such as V1 or is it v1?
Or if you are not sure the exact case of the resource name to be used while creating a definition file,
you can use the kubectl API resource command.
Once you identify the resource name from the list and you need more information about the resource fields
and types under it, you can then run the kubectl explain command.
Provide the resource name that you'd like to be explained in this case, using pods.
Lists all top level fields in pods being the API version kind, metadata, spec and status, and you
can see the type of each field.
So the API version is string and also the description of what it does.
But as you can see, this is not a comprehensive list of all fields and subfields.
It only lists the top level items.
To go deeper, run the same command but with a field to the command.
And like this.
So you would add dot spec to the end of the command and this would list the subfields within it.
But this again lists the subproperties of parent property that you've mentioned.
It's still not comprehensive.
So to list all fields in the way that you would put them in a YAML file, use the recursive flag like
this.
It now outputs the entire comprehensive list of fields that's available on that resource.
And it's very easy now to create YAML files out of this.

--- Lab - Imperative Commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Imperative Commands (optional) ---

-: Okay, in this video we will go
over the practice test for imperative commands.
So in this lab we'll get hands
on practice with creating Kubernetes objects imperatively.
And this is more for, more to help with your exams.
So you must be very familiar with imperative commands
while you're preparing for the exam.
Okay, so let's, let's proceed.
So the first task is to deploy a pod named NGINX pod
using the NGINX Alpine image.
So that we've done before, it's easy.
So it is KUBECTL RUN to create a pod
and the name is NGINX Pod,
and the image is NGINX Alpine.
So check it.
Okay, That's correct.
The next one, deploy a Redis pod
using the Redis alpine image,
with the labels set to tier db.
So that's the similar task but with an additional field.
So if you look at KUBECTL RUN command
let's see if there's an option to specify the labels.
So if you look at this, there are some examples here.
This is what we just did.
And here you have an option to specify the labels.
So dash dash labels equals
and then here's the key value pairs.
And you can have multiple labels.
You can specify multiple labels separated by a comma.
So we're gonna use that approach.
So let's run the KUBECTL RUN command.
The name, the pod is Redis
image is Redis Alpine
and we're gonna pass on labels.
And then the label is tier equals db.
Okay, so that's good.
So the next one is to create a service called Redis service
to expose the Redis application within the cluster
on board 6379.
So the service name has to be Redis service.
The type is cluster IP, and the port is 6379.
So for this, we could run the KUBECTL CREATE
service command.
Let's look at the help.
So if it is, what's in the cluster then it's cluster IP.
So we could run the cluster IP
KUBECTL CREATE SERVICE
cluster IP.
Let's look at the help.
And then you specify the name
of the service and the port here,
which happens to be 6379.
So one of the thing here is
that we want to expose the Redis application, right?
So with this command, there's no way to specify a selector.
This is something that we, we discussed
in this lecture, right?
So if you look at this
there are three ways to create a service.
So this is to create a service named Redis service
of cluster IP.
And we could do a KUBECTL CREATE SERVICE command
but then you cannot really specify the selectors, right?
Or you could do a KUBECTL EXPOSE command.
So ideally for most, for most use cases
you could use the KUBECTL EXPOSE command and
because it will automatically detect the labels
and then use that as selectors for the service, right?
So that's, that's the most ideal.
The only time you could
you should use KUBECTL CREATE SERVICE is when
you need to specify a particular node port, right?
So here you have an example of creating a node port service.
There are two ways to do it
with the EXPOSE command and the CREATE SERVICE command.
But as of this recording
there is no way to specify a node port in the command.
So you have to export that
to a YAML file and edit it for creating it.
Or if you go the other approach, then there's
you cannot specify the selector.
So that's, that's a challenge here.
So here what we are going to do is we're going
to use the EXPOSE command.
If you look at the help, these are some examples.
So we're gonna specify, EXPOSE
and the application is Redis.
So we don't know if it's a pod or deployment.
So let's find that out first.
So it's, it's a pod.
So it's a Redis pod.
So we're gonna do KUBECTL EXPOSE instead of RC
we're gonna do a pod or a PO.
And then the name, this, I remember that this is the name
of the pod and not the service that we wanna create.
So the pod has to be Redis.
And this should be a way to specify the name
of the service, which is using name.
So we're gonna use name and specify it as ready service.
And then of course we also have to specify the port.
And the port is this one, which is 6379.
Okay?
So that's, that's what we are going to do.
KUBECTL EXPOSE Redis,
and then we gonna'
specify the port, which is 6379.
You also need to specify a name that will
be Redis service.
Okay?
I missed specifying pod.
So that in, let's,
let's check it out.
Service Redis, so it is Redis service.
So that's the Redis service.
Let's see if it's got the right labels and selectors,
and also the endpoint.
The labels is tier equals db.
So it's automatically picked that up and the endpoints
indicates that it's automatically discovered the pod.
So let's check.
Okay, that's good.
Okay, the next one is to create a deployment
named web app using the image with three replicas.
So we're going to do KUBECTL
READ DEPLOYMENT command
and the name of the deployment is web app
image is, it's gonna copy and paste.
And then replicas is,
is three.
Oops, I forgot to specify the dashes.
Yep,
we're going to check.
Okay, so there are,
there's zero of three ready?
Okay, three of three ready.
Okay.
So the next one is to create a new pod
called Custom NGINX using the NGINX image
and expose it on container port 8080.
So we know that to create a pod,
we have to KUBECTL RUN command
and the name of the pod is Custom NGINX.
And then the image is NGINX and
we have to expose it on container port 8080.
So we're talking about specifying the port on the container.
So we just use port and specify the port number.
We're not really talking
about exposing the port by creating a service.
This is just specifying what port the container
runs the service on.
And you can do that with the port option.
Okay, let's check our work.
That's correct.
Okay the next one is to create a new namespace
called Dev NS.
So that's pretty easy and straightforward.
KUBECTL CREATE
namespace Dev NS.
Okay, the next one is to create a new deployment
called Redis deploy in the Dev NS namespace.
So we're gonna do KUBECTL CREATE DEPLOYMENT and it's
the name is Redis deploy.
The image is Redis,
replicas has two.
So you could do equals two or space two
either of that work.
And then the name space is Dev NS.
So let's make sure that worked as expected.
So we have the Redis deploy within the Dev NS namespace
and it has two replicas.
Let's check our work.
Okay?
That's correct.
Okay, so the final question is to create a pod
called ACTPD using the image ACTPD Alpine
in the default namespace and then create a service
of type cluster IP by the same name.
The target port for the service should be 80.
So try to do this with as few steps as possible.
So there are two ways of doing this.
One is you could for first do a KUBECTL RUN command
and create the, the pod.
And then we know
that we could use the KUBECTL EXPOSE command to
create a service, but we can actually combine them both
in the RUN command itself.
So that's done using, so let's first create a pod.
So we do a KUBECTL RUN httpd,
that's the name of the pod.
And the image is supposed to be ACTPD Alpine.
And then we have, it's the default name space
so we don't have to specify the name space.
And the target port is 80.
And what we're asked to do is also create a service.
One of the options for the wrong command,
you look to help is the exposed option.
So if you look at, if you look right here
it has the exposed option and it's by defaults at default.
So if it's such to true
create a cluster IP service associated with the pod
and it requires the port field.
So it's automatically going to create a service
with the cluster IP type
and it's going to expose the pod internally.
So yeah,
so that's, so that's what we have to do.
So we're going to, there's the same command
but we're going to add the
expose equals true option to the end of it.
So it's, it is created a pod and a service.
Let's just verify that.
So we have the ACTPD pod,
we have the ACTPD service
and if we look at this service
in more detail
we see that it is got, the selector is run equal ACTPD
and then it also has the end point discovered.
Okay.
So that's, that's correct.
Right?
So that's the, the end of this lab.

--- Kubectl Apply Command ---

In this lecture we will understand more about how the kubectl apply command works.
In the previous lecture, we saw how a kubectl apply command can be used to manage objects in a declarative
way.
In this lecture, we will see a bit more about how the command works.
Internally, the apply command takes into consideration the local configuration file, a live object
definition on Kubernetes, and the last applied configuration before making a decision on what changes
are to be made.
So when you run the apply command, if the object does not already exist, the object is created.
When the object is created, an object configuration similar to what we created locally is created within
Kubernetes, but with additional fields to store status of the object.
This is the live configuration of the object on the Kubernetes cluster.
This is how Kubernetes internally stores information about an object, no matter what approach you use
to create the object, but when you use the kubectl apply command to create an object, it does something
a bit more.
The YAML version of the local object configuration file we wrote is converted to a JSON format, and
it is then stored as the last applied configuration going forward for any updates to the object.
All the three are compared to identify what changes are to be made on the live object.
For example, say when the nginx image is updated to 1.19 in our local file and we run the kubectl apply
command.
This value is compared with the value in the live configuration, and if there is a difference, the
live configuration is updated with the new value.
After any change, the last applied JSON format is always updated to the latest so that it's always
up to date.
So why do we then really need the last applied configuration?
Right.
So if a field was deleted say for example, the type label was deleted.
And now when we run the kubectl apply command, we see that the last applied configuration had a label,
but it's not present in the local configuration.
This means that the field needs to be removed from the live configuration.
So if a field was present in the live configuration and not present in the local or the last applied
configuration, then it will be left as is.
But if a field is missing from the local file and it is present in the last applied configuration,
so that means that in the previous step or whenever the last time we run the kubectl apply command,
that particular field was there and it is now being removed.
So the last applied configuration helps us figure out what fields have been removed from the local file.
Right.
So that field is then removed from the actual live configuration.
What we just discussed is available for your reference in detail in the Kubernetes document pages.
So follow this link to view that.
Okay.
So we saw the three sets of files, and we know that the local file is what's stored on our local system.
The live object configuration is in the Kubernetes memory.
But where is this JSON file that has the last applied configuration stored?
Well, it's stored on the live object configuration on the Kubernetes cluster itself as an annotation
named a last applied configuration.
So remember that this is only done when you use the apply command.
The create or replace commands do not store the last applied configuration like this.
So you must bear in mind not to mix the imperative and declarative approaches while managing the Kubernetes
objects.
So once you use the apply command going forward, whenever a change is made, the apply command compares
all three sections the local pod definition file, the live object configuration, and the last applied
configuration stored within the live object configuration file for deciding what changes are to be made
to the live configuration, similar to what we saw in the previous slide.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
I will see you in the next.

--- Here's some inspiration to keep going ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- A Quick Reminder ---

(bright music)
-: Hey, so here is a quick reminder,
and I hope you don't mind me jumping in like this.
I wanted to take a moment to remind you
about the importance of staying focused
on the labs and videos that are provided in this course.
Now, I understand that you may be eager
to create your own local setup to practice,
but I recommend that you resist
that urge until you have completed the course.
Our labs and videos are designed
to give you a seamless learning experience
that will help you gain the most out of the course
in the time that you have available.
By sticking to the labs and videos provided in the course,
you can minimize distractions and interruptions and ensure
that you have a clear path from start to finish.
And this will help you stay focused on your learning goals
and make the most of your time with us.
Rest assured, we will provide you
with resources to create your own local setup
at the appropriate time in the course.
For now, let's focus on the labs
so you can gain the knowledge
and skills you need to succeed.
Thank you for choosing our course,
thank you for choosing KodeKloud, and we look forward
to helping you achieve your learning goals.
(graphic blips)

--- Reference Notes for lectures and labs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

