--- Logging and Monitoring - Section Introduction ---

In this section, we discuss about the various logging and monitoring options available.
We first see how to monitor the Kubernetes cluster components as well as the applications hosted on
them.
We then see how to view and manage the logs for the cluster components as well as the applications.
We practice what we learn through a set of fun and challenging exercises.
Well, I hope you like the upcoming lectures and practice tests.
So let's get started.

--- Monitor Cluster Components ---

In this lecture we talk about monitoring a Kubernetes cluster.
So how do you monitor resource consumption on Kubernetes?
Or more importantly, what would you like to monitor?
I'd like to know node level metrics, such as the number of nodes in the cluster, how many of them
are healthy, as well as performance metrics such as CPU, memory, network, and disk utilization,
as well as pod level metrics such as the number of pods and the performance metrics of each pod, such
as the CPU and memory consumption on them.
So we need a solution that will monitor these metrics, store them, and provide analytics around this
data.
As of this recording, Kubernetes does not come with a full featured built in monitoring solution.
However, there are a number of open source solutions available today, such as Metrics Server, Prometheus,
Elastic Stack, and proprietary solutions like Datadog and Dynatrace.
Hipster was one of the original projects that enabled monitoring and analysis features for Kubernetes.
You will see a lot of reference online when you look for reference architectures on monitoring Kubernetes.
However, hipster is now deprecated and a slimmed down version was formed, known as the Metrics Server.
You can have one metric server per Kubernetes cluster.
The metrics server retrieves metrics from each of the Kubernetes nodes and pods, aggregates them,
and stores them in memory.
Note that the metrics server is only an in-memory monitoring solution and does not store the metrics
on the disk, and as a result, you cannot see historical performance data.
For that, you must rely on one of the advanced monitoring solutions we talked about earlier in this
lecture.
So how are the metrics generated for the pods on these nodes?
Kubernetes runs an agent on each node known as the Kubelet, which is responsible for receiving instructions
from the Kubernetes API, master server, and running pods on the nodes.
The Kubelet also contains a subcomponent known as the C advisor or Container Advisor.
C advisor is responsible for retrieving performance metrics from Pods and exposing them through the
Kubelet API to make the metrics available for the metrics server.
If you're using minikube for your local cluster, run the command minikube add ons.
Enable metrics dash server for all other environments.
Deploy the metrics server by cloning the metric server deployment files from the GitHub repository,
and then deploying the required components using the kube control create command.
This command deploys a set of pods, services and roles to enable metrics.
Server to poll for performance metrics from the nodes in the cluster.
Once deployed, give the metrics server some time to collect and process data.
Once processed, cluster performance can be viewed by running the command kube control top node.
This provides the CPU and memory consumption of each of the nodes.
As you can see, 8% of the CPU on my master node is consumed, which is about 166 milli cores.
Use the kube control top pod command to view performance metrics of pods in Kubernetes.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Coding Exercises section and practice viewing performance metrics on Kubernetes cluster.
Thank you.

--- Lab - Monitoring Cluster Components ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution: Monitor Cluster Components ---

-: Okay, In this lab we get familiar
with monitoring cluster components.
So the first question is
we have deployed a few pods running workloads
so inspect them.
Let's do kubectl get pods command.
And we see that there are indeed three pods,
elephant, lion, and rabbit,
and they're all in a running state.
So let's go ahead
and what we need to do is monitor the resources consumed
by each of these pods.
And for that we need to deploy the metric server.
And for this, we have a get repo with the settings
for the metric server that will work for our labs.
So we're just going to use that.
But if you're trying this in your own environment
or for a production environment,
so remember do not use this for production use-cases
because there are changes that are in here
that are done just to make this work
with this particular lab exercise
and just to make it easy for us to deploy it.
So do not use this for a production use-case.
Always remember to refer to the official recommendation
on the metric server to deploy
one in your environment.
So let's wait for, okay, so this is cloned.
And if you look at this,
you have
the files here that are required
to deploy the metric server.
Let's go ahead. Okay.
So the next step is to deploy the metric server
by creating these components.
So we're just going to do a kubectl create-f.,
that creates all of the objects required
to deploy the metric server.
Okay, let's go next.
And at times it might take a few minutes
for the metric servers to start gathering
and reporting data.
And so if you do a kubectl top node, yeah,
it seems to be working already.
So yes, that's working now so we can proceed.
Okay, the next question is to identify the node
that consumes the most CPU.
So here you can see two nodes
and the CPU consumption of the two.
So node 01 has 57 milli cores
and the control plane consumes about 470 milli cores.
And if you look at it
the percentage is just 1%, but still
you can see there's a difference between the two.
And of course that's because the control plane
has all the control plane components running on it.
So to answer this question
the most CPU consumption is by the control plane.
So let's select that.
The next one is to identify the node
that consumes the most memory.
If you look at the memory consumption here, again,
we know we can see that
the control plane consumes most memory.
So answer to this is control plane again.
The next question is to identify the pod
that consumes the most memory.
So the pod this time.
So you can get that
by running the kubectl top pod command.
And here you can see the memory consumption
and the CPU consumption.
If you look at the memory consumption
you can see that it's rabbit.
Rabbit consumes the most memory.
So that's the answer to this is rabbit.
And the next question is to identify the pod
that consumes the least CPU.
So here you can see it's lion.
This consumes one milli core of CPU
so select lion and that should be it.
So basically that's a quick introduction
to deploying the metric server
and also just using the commands to
look at its reporting and identify basic information.
All right, thank you.

--- Managing Application Logs ---

In this lecture we will talk about various logging mechanisms in Kubernetes.
Let us start with logging in Docker.
I run a Docker container called Event Simulator, and all that it does is generate random events simulating
a web server.
These are events streamed to the standard output by the application.
Now, if I were to run the Docker container in the background in a detached mode using the dash D option,
I wouldn't see the logs.
If I wanted to view the logs, I could use the docker logs command followed by the container id.
The dash f option helps us see the live log trail.
Now back to Kubernetes.
We create a pod with the same Docker image using the Pod definition file.
Once the pod is running, we can view the logs using the kube control logs command.
With the pod name, use the dash f option to stream the logs live, just like the docker command.
Now these logs are specific to the container running inside the pod.
As we learned before, Kubernetes pods can have multiple Docker containers in them.
In this case, I modify my Pod definition file to include an additional container called image processor.
If you run the cube control logs command now with the pod name, which containers logs would it show?
If there are multiple containers within a pod, you must specify the name of the container explicitly
in the command.
Otherwise it would fail asking you to specify a name.
In this case, I will specify the name of the first container event simulator and that prints the relevant
log messages.
Now that is the simple logging functionality implemented within Kubernetes.
And that is all that an application developer really needs to know to get started with Kubernetes.
And that is all you really need to know as part of the certification program.
However, in the next lecture, we will see more about some advanced logging configuration and third
party support for logging in Kubernetes.
We also have a nice demo that shows how a popular logging framework is integrated with Kubernetes.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Coding Exercises section and practice working with logs.
Thank you.

--- Lab - Monitor Application Logs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution: Logging : (Optional) ---

-: Let's just now go
through the lab for managing application logs.
So we'll go through and review a few applications.
And then how to review the logs
of these applications and get useful in information.
Right?
So we've deployed a pod hosting an application inspected
and, wait for it to start, suspect you can get pods
and we see that it's running.
And let's click on, okay.
Now at user, user five
has expressed concerns accessing the application.
Identify the cause
and inspect the logs.
So let's take a look at the logs,
of this application.
And we see that there are
logs here and it says
user five.
So user five.
That's user five.
And we see that the, the cause is
the, the user failed to log in as the account is locked
due to too many failed attempts.
So it's account locked due to many failed attempts.
That's the correct answer.
Okay, the next one is,
now have
a new application deployed
as web app two.
And if you see a user is reporting issues
while trying to purchase an item.
Identify the user and the cause of the issue.
Inspect the logs of the web app.
So let's look at the logs.
Logs again.
Now it says a container name must be specified
for the Paul Web app, too.
So this is because if you look at this,
this web application has two containers and they're ready.
So if, if there are two containers
you must specify which containers' logs
is it that we wanna see.
So there's a simple web app and there's a db.
So we're looking at the
web application.
So, we'll just specify
web app
and we can see the logs.
And the question is,
a user is reporting issues while trying to purchase an item.
So we've gotta identify the user and the cause of the issue.
So if you look at this,
these are all normal events, but these are warnings.
So let's look at the warnings.
So user five, failed to log in.
That's not the issue here.
This one says user thirty order order failed as the
item is out of stock.
So that seems to be, and that's
those are the only two issues.
So this, this seems to be the correct one.
It's user thirty and item out of stock.
Okay, So that's a quick lab
for viewing logs of an application.

