--- Application Lifecycle Management - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello, my name is Mumshad Mannambeth and we are going
through the certified Kubernetes Administrator's Course.
In this section, we discuss about
application life cycle management.
We start at rolling updates and rollbacks,
the different ways to configure
applications, scale applications,
before finally looking
at the primitives office health healing application.
We discuss a lot of these
in the certified Kubernetes Application Developers Course.
So if you have attended that already,
some of these may be repetitive for you.
If these topics seem familiar to you,
skip them or simply go through the practice desk.
We will start with rolling updates and rollbacks.

--- Rolling Updates and Rollbacks ---

In this lecture we will talk about updates and rollbacks in a deployment.
Before we look at how we upgrade our application, let's try to understand rollouts and versioning in
a deployment.
When you first create a deployment it triggers a rollout.
A new rollout creates a new replica set, which is recorded as a new deployment revision in the future
when the application is upgraded, meaning when the container version is updated to a new one, a new
rollout is triggered and a new deployment revision is created, named revision two.
This helps us keep track of the changes made to our deployment, and enables us to roll back to a previous
version of deployment if necessary.
You can see the status of your rollout by running the command kube control rollout status, followed
by the name of the deployment.
To see the revisions and history of rollout, run the Kube control rollout history command followed
by the deployment name, and this will show you the revisions and history of our deployment.
There are two types of deployment strategies.
Say for example you have five replicas of your web application instance deployed.
One way to upgrade these to a newer version is to destroy all of these, and then create newer versions
of application instances.
Meaning first destroy the five running instances and then deploy five new instances of the new application
version.
The problem with this, as you can imagine, is that during the period after the older versions are
down and before any newer version is up, the application is down and inaccessible to users.
This strategy is known as the recreate strategy, and thankfully this is not the default deployment
strategy.
The second strategy is where we do not destroy all of them at once.
Instead, we take down the older version and bring up a newer version one by one.
This way the application never goes down and the upgrade is seamless.
Remember, if you do not specify a strategy while creating the deployment, it will assume it to be
rolling.
Update.
In other words, rolling update is the default deployment strategy.
So we talked about upgrades.
How exactly do you update your deployment?
When I say update it could be different things, such as updating your application version by updating
the version of Docker containers used, updating their labels, or updating the number of replicas,
etc. since we already have a deployment definition file, it is easy for us to modify this file once
we make the necessary changes.
We run the kube control apply command to apply the changes.
A new rollout is triggered and a new revision of the deployment is created.
But there is another way to do the same thing.
You could use the kube control set image command to update the image of your application.
But remember, doing it this way will result in the deployment definition file having a different configuration.
So you must be careful when using the same definition file to make changes in the future.
The difference between the recreate and rolling update strategies can also be seen when you view the
deployments in detail.
From the cube control.
Describe deployment command to see the detailed information regarding the deployments.
You will notice when the recreate strategy was used.
The events indicate that the old replica set was scaled down to zero first, and then the new replica
sets scaled up to five.
However, when the rolling update strategy was used, the old replica set was scaled down one at a time,
simultaneously scaling up the new replica set one at a time.
Let's look at how a deployment performs an upgrade under the hood when a new deployment is created,
say, to deploy five replicas, it first creates a replica set automatically, which in turn creates
the number of pods required to meet the number of replicas.
When you upgrade your application, as we saw in the previous slide, the Kubernetes deployment object
creates a new replica set under the hood and starts deploying the containers there.
At the same time taking down the pods in the old replica set following a rolling update strategy.
This can be seen when you try to list the replica sets using the Kube control get replica sets command.
Here we see the old replica set with zero pods and the new replica set with five parts.
Say for instance, once you upgrade your application, you realize something isn't very right.
Something's wrong with the new version of build you used to upgrade.
So you would like to roll back your update.
Kubernetes deployments allow you to roll back to a previous revision To undo a change.
Run the kube control rollout undo command followed by the name of the deployment.
The deployment will then destroy the pods in the new replica set and bring the older ones up in the
old replica set, and your application is back to its older format.
When you compare the output of the cube control, get replica sets command before and after the rollback.
You will be able to notice this difference before the rollback.
The first replica set had zero pods and new replica set had five pods, and this is reversed after the
rollback is finished.
To summarize the commands real quick, use the cube control create command to create the deployment.
Get deployments command to list the deployments.
Apply and set image commands to update the deployments and rollout status command to see the status
of rollouts and rollout.
Undo command to roll back a deployment operation.

--- Lab - Rolling Updates and Rollbacks ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution: Rolling update ---

-: Okay. So in this lab
we're going to look at rolling updates and rollbacks.
So, rolling updates mainly.
So, I'm going forward and I'm going to try and use
the alias K for Kubectl.
So I've already set an alias
K for Kubectl so I'm gonna try and use that
going forward.
So, we have deployed a simple web application
inspected the pods and services.
So, let's do,
get pod.
So, there seems to be a set of front end pods.
Most likely there is a deployment.
So, there's a front end deployment which deploys four pods.
Then wait for the application to fully deploy and
view the application using the link called "Back Portal".
So, there is a link here you can click
to view the application
and it opens it up in a new window.
It's called,
it just says
"Hello, front end"
One moment.
Okay, so
let's look at the first or second question.
So, what is the current color of the web application?
So, if you look here, it is blue in color.
So, it's blue.
Now run the script named "cold test"
to send multiple requests to the web application.
So, we have world test here, so I'm gonna run that.
As you can see, all it does is it pings the application
and returns the color.
So, the color is blue.
And it just keeps running that for a few seconds.
So, that's done.
So, we're gonna use this script to run tests,
to kind of simulate accessing the web application by
either like multiple users or sending multiple requests
to the web application.
So, we'll use that to basically just do a small round
of tests on the application.
Now, inspect the deployment
and identify the number of pods deployed by it.
So, we just looked at that
and we saw that creates four pods.
So, it's four as the answer here.
Now, what container image is used to deploy the application?
So, let's look at the deployment
in more detail
and content.
And here we have the pod template.
We have containers image.
The image is code cloud/web app color V1.
So, it's this one right here.
That's the image we've used to deploy the application.
Now, inspect the deployment
and identify the current strategy.
If you look at this, we have the
strategy type given here and that is rolling update.
So, the ruling update is the current strategy.
Now, if you were to upgrade the application now,
what would happen?
So, we know that the rolling update
takes down one pod at a time and brings up the new pod.
It does not wait, it does not take all of it down and
and bring the new ones up.
So, the answer here,
"all ports are taken down before upgrading."
No, that's not the correct one.
"Pods are upgraded a few at a time."
So, that's the correct one.
Now, let us try that, upgrade the application
by setting the image on deployment to code cloud,
web app color v2.
So, we're going to update the image.
Now, one way to do that is you could do a Kubectle edit,
and deployment,
and front end,
and then go here and change the image.
Another way to do that
is just using the Kubectle set command.
So, you could do a set image,
run the help to find that out.
So, that's Kubectle set image.
You can, set deployment, deployment name
and then the container name and the image, right?
So, let's try that.
So, that's Kubectle set image
for the deployment.
The deployment name is front end and the container name,
we need to find out the container name. So let's do that.
Deploy, front end, the container name is
simple web app.
Okay, so let's do that again.
Kubectle, set image, deploy,
front end.
Container name is simple web app
=
test the image.
And that's updated. Let's make sure it's updated.
So on the described command again
and we see that the image is set to v2.
Okay, success.
So, let's run the curl test again and see what we're seeing.
So. we are still seeing blue, but we see green occasionally.
There's a lot of blue and there's some green.
So, green is the new version that we have deployed.
And blue is the older version.
And now we have a lot of green, right?
So, if you look at this, there was a lot of blue at first
and then there's some green,
and then there's green and blue at one point of time,
then we just have green.
So, that's how it's up updated the application deployment.
So, that's the rolling update.
Now after how many pods can be down for upgrade at a time,
consider the current strategy settings.
So, if you look at this, the strategy type is rolling update
which we've already seen.
There's rolling updates, strategy,
the additional details here. So, 25% max unavailable.
So, that means it's going to take down only 25%
of the pods at a time
before bringing the new ones up.
So, you have four replicas and 25% of that is just one.
So let's select one.
Change the deployment strategy to recreate
and delete and recreate the deployment if necessary.
So let's go ahead
and try and change the deployment strategy.
This is a Kubectle edit,
deployment,
front end.
And we'll just go here and
we'll just change this strategy type
to recreate.
And the recreate does not require the rolling update
parameters so we are just going to get rid of this.
Okay, and let's verify.
And you see the strategy type is changed to recreate.
Okay. So the next one is to upgrade the application
by setting the image on the deployment to v3.
So, currently we have v2,
and we've got to change it to v3.
And let's use the same command,
the Kubectle set image deploy command.
And we must change this to 3.
Okay, so that's updated.
And next, let's run the code test again.
And when we run this time, unlike the previous time,
we see a lot of failures, so some of the requests
are failing.
And this is because
it took down some of the pods
as part of the upgrade because we are doing a recreate.
So let's just give it some time.
If you look at the application here,
it says bad gateway.
Okay, and now you can see it's started to respond.
We have the red colors coming up and when we refresh this
you see we have application v3
and the red colors are coming up.
Okay, so that's the end of this lab.

--- Configure Applications ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Commands and Arguments in Docker ---

In this section we will talk about commands and arguments in a Pod definition file.
This is not listed as a required topic in the certification curriculum, but I think it's important
to explain as it is a topic that is usually overlooked.
Let's first refresh our memory on commands in containers and Docker.
We will then translate this into pods in the next lecture.
In this lecture we will look at commands, arguments and entry points in Docker.
Let's start with a simple scenario.
Say you were to run a Docker container from an ubuntu image.
When you run the docker run ubuntu command, it runs an instance of ubuntu image and exits immediately.
If you were to list the running containers, you wouldn't see the container running.
If you list all containers, including those that are stopped, you will see that the new container
you ran is in an excited state.
Now why is that?
Unlike virtual machines, containers are not meant to host an operating system.
Containers are meant to run a specific task or process, such as to host an instance of a web server
or application server, or a database, or simply to carry out some kind of computation or analysis.
Once the task is complete, the container exits.
A container only lives as long as the process inside it is alive.
If the web service inside the container is stopped or crashes, the container exits.
So who defines what process is run within the container?
If you look at the Docker file for popular Docker images like nginx, you will see an instruction called
cmd, which stands for command that defines the program that will be run within the container when it
starts.
For the nginx image, it is the nginx command.
For the MySQL image it is the MySQL command.
What we tried to do earlier was to run a container with a plain ubuntu operating system.
Let us look at the docker file for this image.
You will see that it uses bash as the default command.
Now bash is not really a process like a web server or database server.
It is a shell that listens for inputs from a terminal.
If it cannot find a terminal, it exits.
When we run the ubuntu container earlier, Docker created a container from the ubuntu image and launched
the bash program.
By default, Docker does not attach a terminal to a container when it is run.
And so the bash program does not find the terminal and so it exits.
Since the process that was started when the container was created finished the container exits as well.
So how do you specify a different command to start the container?
One option is to append a command to the docker run command.
And that way it overrides the default command specified within the image.
In this case, I run the docker run ubuntu command with the sleep five command as the added option.
This way when the container starts, it runs the sleep program, waits for five seconds and then exits.
But how do you make that change permanent?
Say you want the image to always run the sleep command when it starts.
You would then create your own image from the base ubuntu image and specify a new command.
There are different ways of specifying the command, either the command simply as is in a shell form,
or in a JSON array format like this.
But remember, when you specify in a JSON array format, the first element in the array should be the
executable.
In this case, the sleep program do not specify the command and parameters together like this.
The command and its parameters should be separate elements in the list.
So I now build my new image using the docker build command and name it as Ubuntu Sleeper.
I could now simply run the Docker ubuntu sleeper command and get the same results.
It always sleeps for five seconds and exits.
But what if I wish to change the number of seconds it sleeps?
Currently it is hard coded to five seconds.
As we learned before, one option is to run the docker run command with the new command appended to
it.
In this case, sleep ten.
And so the command that will be run at startup will be sleep ten.
But it doesn't look very good.
The name of the image, ubuntu Sleeper in itself implies that the container will sleep.
So we shouldn't have to specify the sleep command again.
Instead, we would like it to be something like this.
Docker run ubuntu sleeper ten.
We only want to pass in the number of seconds the container should sleep, and sleep command should
be invoked automatically.
And that is where the entry point instruction comes into play.
Entry point defines the executable command.
CMD provides default args as in.
You can specify the program that will be run when the container starts, and whatever you specify on
the command line.
In this case, ten will get appended to the entry point.
So the command that will be run when the container starts is sleep ten.
So that's the difference between the two.
In case of the CMD instruction the command line parameters passed will get replaced entirely, whereas
in case of entrypoint the command line parameters will get appended.
Now in the second case, what if I run the ubuntu sleeper image command without appending the number
of seconds?
Then the command at startup will be just sleep and you get the error that the operand is missing.
So how do you configure a default value for the command if one was not specified in the command line.
That's where you would use both entrypoint as well as the command instruction.
In this case, the command instruction will be appended to the Entrypoint instruction.
So at startup the command would be sleep five if you didn't specify any parameters in the command line.
If you did then that will override the command instruction.
And remember for this to happen, you should always specify the entry point and command instructions
in a JSON format.
Finally, what if you really, really want to modify the entry point during runtime, say from sleep
to an imaginary sleep 2.0 command?
Well, in that case, you can override it by using the Entrypoint option in the docker run command.
The final command at startup would then be sleep 2.0 ten.
Well, that's it for this lecture and I will see you in the next.

--- Commands and Arguments in Kubernetes ---

In this lecture we will look at commands and arguments in a Kubernetes pod.
In the previous lecture, we created a simple Docker image that sleeps for a given number of seconds.
We named it Ubuntu Sleeper and we ran it using the docker command Docker run ubuntu sleeper.
By default it sleeps for five seconds, but you can override it by passing a command line argument.
We will now create a pod using this image.
We start with a blank pod definition template, input the name of the pod and specify the image name.
When this pod is created, it creates a container from the specified image and the container sleeps
for five seconds before exiting.
Now, if you need the container to sleep for 10s as in the second command, how do you specify the additional
argument in the pod definition file?
Anything that is appended to the docker run command will go into the args property of the pod definition
file in the form of an array like this.
Let us try to relate that to the docker file we created earlier.
The docker file has an entry point as well as a cmd instructions Specified, the entry point is the
command that is run at startup, and the cmd is the default parameter passed to the command with the
args option in the Pod definition file.
We override the cmd instruction in the docker file.
But what if you need to override the entry point, say from sleep to an imaginary sleep 2.0 command?
In the Docker world, we would run the docker run command with the entry point option set to the new
command.
The corresponding entry in the pod definition file would be using a command field.
The command field corresponds to entry point instruction in the docker file.
So to summarize, there are two fields that correspond to two instructions in the docker file.
The command field overrides the entry point instruction, and the args field overrides the command instruction
in the docker file.
Remember, it is not the command field that overrides the cmd instruction in the docker file.
Well, that's it about commands and arguments in Kubernetes.
Head over to the Coding exercises section and practice viewing, configuring and troubleshooting commands
and arguments in Kubernetes.

--- Lab - Commands and Arguments ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Commands and Arguments (Optional) ---

-: Okay, in this video we're gonna go over
the lab on commands and arguments.
So let's start.
So the first question is, how many pods exist on the system?
So let's check the number of pods,
and there's just one pod.
The second question is
what is the command used to run the pod?
Now ubuntu-sleeper,
though we're going to look at the pod
in detail, and we'll see under the containers
we have the ubuntu container,
and here we have the command,
which is sleep 4800.
And I do not see any arguments
so that's the command.
So it's sleep 4800,
that's the command that's run by this pod.
So there's one right here.
Okay, so the next one is to create a pod
with the ubuntu image, to run a container to sleep
for 5000 seconds,
modify the file ubuntu-sleeper-2.
So there's already a file given
called ubuntu-sleeper 2.
It says simple part definition file,
you have containers, the name and image,
and we want to
set it to run sleep for 5000 seconds.
So let's modify this file,
and set a command,
and it has to be to sleep for 5000 seconds, right?
Sleep 5000.
Now remember that when you specify command,
the command is always an array, right.
So it has to be in an array format like this.
So that's the first thing.
So this is, that's one way of specifying an array.
And the other way is
to just have it like this,
this form of an array.
So sleep,
and then 5000.
So something like this, right?
So these are two forms.
You may follow any of them.
And this one right here,
this is still not in the correct form
because if you look at this,
this is an array of a single item.
So this array only has one item,
and that's called sleep 5000.
It's a single kind of item in the area.
Whereas here, it's two separate.
Now, one of the things to remember is
when you're specifying a command,
a command always have to have the command as the first item.
And that's basically, if you look at this, right,
sleep is the command, and 5000 is the argument.
So this has to be,
sleep has to be
a separate string,
a separate item in the array like this.
And the argument, you could specify the argument
either in the same command as another item,
or you could provide it as as an argument.
So that's, those are two other options.
So let's get rid of this.
Let's go with this.
So this is one approach.
The other is to specify arguments as args,
and provide the argument here and get rid of it here.
So this is,
this is more,
readable and straightforward.
So this way we know that
the command is sleep and the argument is 5000.
But even if you give the argument as a second array
it's ultimately going to combine them both
for running so that works too.
So that's...
That's that.
So let's go ahead and create
that file.
Let's make sure
pod enter sleep 2.
Okay, and here we see
that is in a running state
and you have the command and argument as 5000.
So let's give it a shot.
Okay, so that works.
As I said, it could also be just the command
as two elements in the area with sleep 5000 like this.
Okay, let's proceed.
The next task is to create a pod using the file
named ubuntu-sleeper-3.yaml.
There's another file.
Okay, and there's something wrong with it,
so try and fix it.
So taking a quick look, I don't see anything wrong with it.
So you have the image, you have the name,
you have the command and the argument
which is, also given as a command,
which is,
which is actually okay.
So let's try and create this
this pod.
And we see that it's a come back as a bad request.
And it says, "Cannot unmarshal number into
Go struct field containers,
spec containers command of type string."
So all the elements in the command must be a string,
you cannot have a number.
So this exercise was just to
kind of
make sure you know that
you don't accidentally put in a number instead of a string.
So let's create that.
Okay, that should be good.
Okay, So the next question is to update
the pod ubuntu-sleeper-3 to sleep for 2000 seconds.
So we have, let's try, you could pedal edit pod,
and it's ubuntu-sleeper-3.
And let's see what happens if we just try to edit it, right?
So we're going to just change the command
to 2000 seconds.
Let's try and save that.
If you see this, it did not go through,
and it says that this is forbidden
so pod updates may not change the fields other than these,
so the image and active deadline.
Again, so there are some,
some properties that you can change,
and there are some that you can't change.
So this here, right here
is a property that you cannot just directly edit.
So what we'll have to do is go out of it,
it's already created a file here with our edits,
so we can look at that.
It has a lot of other information
which can be ignored, but you can see that it has the edit.
So we could just do a kubectl replace,
place, and force,
and provide that file name.
So this is one approach that you can use.
And what it's gonna do is it's going to delete the pod
then recreate the new pod based on the edited one.
So this is one of the approach
you can use in the exam, if you have to edit something
that's not actually editable directly,
or you could edit the pod itself,
the pod definition that you have locally and update that.
And that's also, that's the best practice.
It's taking a while for the port to be terminated.
And as is mentioned before
and that's completely okay, that's unexpected behavior.
So when we try to delete a pod,
a kill signal is sent to the process that's running
in the container inside the pod.
And it depends on the process
and how much time it takes to handle the kill signal
and fully terminate the process.
So that's, that delay's expected.
Okay, so it's now updated.
Let's check the work.
Okay, so the next question is
to inspect a Dockerfile
under root
by the color
Dockerfile
and what command is run at the container startup.
So if you were to create an image
from this Dockerfile and run it,
what would be the command that's run at startup?
So we know that entry point is
is where is the command that's gonna be run,
so it's gonna be python app.py,
that's the command that would be run as startup.
So that's pretty straightforward.
Now let's look at Dockerfile 2.
And now you have entry point and the command argument.
Now we know that this in Docker, you have both of these.
And in this case what command is run
at the continuous startup.
So you have python app.py,
we know that that's the entry point,
and these are gonna be going
in as arguments for the entry point.
So it's gonna be python app.py followed by color red.
So python app.py and followed by color red.
Okay, the next one is to inspect the two files
under directory webapp-color-2.
So there's a directory called webapp-color-2
and there are two files.
First one is the Dockerfile,
and this is a
a similar file which has an entry point and,
and the CMD parameter.
And then we also have...
a web.
We also have a Kubernetes manifest file for pod.
And which uses this Dockerfile,
the image created from this Dockerfile,
so that's what it says here.
Assume the image was created from the Dockerfile.
So first we create an image from this
and then we use that image here.
And when we do that
here we are overriding the command with color green.
So what would be the end result?
So as we learned from the lecture
the command always overrides the entry point.
And if we had arguments
then that would override this command here.
So in this case, the command overrides the entry point,
so that's gonna be color green.
That's, the command I would start with.
So it's not going to be any of this,
it's actually going to be this.
It's not even going to run the app.py.
Okay, and the next question is
to explore the files under another directory.
So let's go to
webapp-color-3.
There are two files there.
So we have webapp-color-3
followed by
Dockerfile-2 so that's a similar Dockerfile.
And then there's,
there's a bug definition file as well.
So again, it's the same kind of question.
You have an entry point and the command here.
Then you have command and arguments here.
So as we know, this is,
both of these are gonna override both of these,
so is the ultimate command that's gonna be run
is python app.py followed by the color pink.
So python app.py followed by the color pink.
Okay, so the final question is to create a part
with the given specifications.
These, by default, it displays a blue background
and set the given command line arguments
to change it to green.
Okay, so when we run this command,
so let's first start with the command to create a pod.
So we're gonna do a kubectl run
and then followed by the pod name, which is webapp-green
and then followed by the image,
which is the code cloud webapp color image.
And then you have the command line arguments
that we need to pass, which are color green.
Now, what it says is by default, it runs,
it actually runs, it displays a blue background,
but we want,
that's the behavior of this particular image.
We want it to,
to run in the green color,
and that's,
that can be done by passing in this additional argument.
So all we need to do is kind of create this
and then pass in an additional argument.
And one way to do that is we can create a manifest file.
So we could do a dry-run=client
and then output
this to AMO format.
Sorry, clicked that wrong.
Okay, and then we can go in
and add the args section here.
So that's one way to do it, but something like this,
we should be able to do it
in a much easier, more straightforward way.
So let me explain how that is.
So for example, in general
if I had this application locally I would run python app.py
or if there's an executable cob:web app
I would actually run web app, something like this.
And then if changing the color is an option
then it would be as easy
as just specifying the color to be green, right?
So the same way
running this application
on Kubernetes has to be as easy as that.
So basically all you should be able to do
is keep kubectl run and then whatever is the name
of whatever that it is, the name of that application,
so web app followed by, you know, the image name and stuff.
And also it should be as easy to customize it
by just passing in the color and color like this.
So once this, once this application is containerized
and a Docker image is built out of it
it should be as easy as something like this, right?
So there's, there is an option for that.
If you look at the help of the kubectl run command
you'll see that
out of all of these options
there's a section here where you can pass
in additional arguments, right?
So here it says
I run the Nginx port, but use custom arguments.
So here you have the name, the image
but then you have this double dash
and then you have all the arguments, right?
So there are arguments, if you look at this command
there are arguments that are specific for,
for the kubectl utility.
So you have image which is specifically
for the kubectl utility
and there may be many other arguments
such as all of these dry run labels.
All of these are for the kubectl utility,
but then the application that runs inside Nginx
or the simple web app that we are running
that also has options that are very similar to this.
So in order to differentiate between the options
for kubectl and the options
for the application that's running within the container
and to specify those, all of those on the same command line
you have this double dash option.
So this basically separates the options
for the kubectl utility
and the options that are going to go through
to the Nginx application running inside, right?
So anything that's before this are specifically options
for the kubectl utility.
And anything that goes in after this
which may also look very much like these,
they are going to be passed through
to the Nginx application that's running inside, right?
So that's, that's the reason why you have this double dash.
So if you just use the double dash
and then pass in anything, all of these are gonna be options
for the application running inside.
And then if you want to override the command itself,
not just the arguments, but the command itself
then you could use the dash dash command option.
And again, remember that's before, but if you do that
then you can also provide a command
and a set of arguments after it, right?
So that's why you have this double dash.
So let's, let's try and use that approach for this, right?
So let's do a kubectl run
followed by webapp-green
and the image is,
this, okay?
And now we want to pass in the arguments
and the arguments are just color green.
So we're going to put the double dash in.
And now anything I specify now is gonna be
an option that won't be considered by kubectl
but it'll be considered by this,
this process running inside.
So I'm gonna say color and I'm gonna say green, right.
So these are gonna be passed through.
And if I want to, let's say,
so this is gonna be basically
generate the command called python then app.py
followed by color and green.
But if I want to update python 5000 itself,
then I could pass in this command option
and then pass in the command here,
like python, let's say app 2.py or something like that.
In this case we don't, we're not going to do that.
So I'm going to remove that
and just pass this through.
Okay, so let's create it, let's check it out.
If you look at this, you have args color green
and the command is already built
into the web app as, as the entry point, right?
So we're not going to touch that.
Here we, we have just passed through the,
the green color.
Okay, let's check our work.
Alright, so that's, that's about it.
I hope that was informational
and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Configure Environment Variables in Applications ---

In this lecture we will see how to set an environment variable in Kubernetes.
Given a Pod definition file which uses the same image as the docker command, we ran in the last lecture
to set an environment variable, use the env property.
Env is an array, so every item under the env property starts with a dash indicating an item in the
array.
Each item has a name and a value property.
The name is the name of the environment variable made available with the container, and the value is
its value.
What we just saw was a direct way of specifying the environment variables using a plain key value pair
format.
However, there are other ways of setting the environment variables, such as using configmaps and secrets.
The difference in this case is that instead of specifying value, we say value from and then a specification
of configmap or secret.
We will discuss about Configmaps and secret keys in the upcoming lectures.
That's it for this lecture and I will see you in the next.

--- Configuring ConfigMaps in Applications ---

In this lecture we will discuss how to work with configuration data in Kubernetes.
In the previous lecture we saw how to define environment variables in a Pod definition file.
When you have a lot of Pod definition files, it will become difficult to manage the environment data
stored within the various files.
We can take this information out of the Pod definition file and manage it centrally using configuration
maps.
Config maps are used to pass configuration data in the form of key value pairs in Kubernetes.
When a pod is created, inject the configmap into the pod so the key value pairs are available as environment
variables for the application hosted inside the container in the pod.
There are two phases involved in configuring Configmaps.
First, create the Configmap and second, inject them into the pod just like any other Kubernetes object.
There are two ways of creating a Configmap.
The imperative way without using a config map definition file and the declarative way by using a config
map definition file.
If you do not wish to create a config map definition file, you could simply use the cube control create
config map command and specify the required arguments.
Let's take a look at that first.
With this method, you can directly specify the key value pairs in the command line to create a config
map of the given values.
Run the cube control.
Create config map command.
The command is followed by the config name and the option from literal.
The firm literal option is used to specify the key value pairs in the command itself.
In this example, we are creating a config map by the name appconfig with a key value pair of app color
equals blue.
If you wish to add additional key value pairs, simply specify the from literal options multiple times.
However, this will get complicated when you have too many configuration items.
Another way to input configuration data is through a file.
Use the from file option to specify a path to the file that contains the required data.
The data from this file is read and stored under the name of the file.
Let us now look at the declarative approach for this.
We create a definition file just like how we did for the pod.
The file has an API version kind metadata instead of spec.
Here we have data.
The API version is v1.
The kind is configmap.
Under metadata we specify a name for the Configmap.
We will call it App.config under data and the configuration data in a key value format.
Run the cube control, create command and specify the configuration file name.
So that creates the App.config Configmap map with the values we specify.
You can create as many config maps as you need in the same way for various different purposes.
Here I have one of my application, other for MySQL and another one for redes.
So it is important to name the config maps appropriately as you will be using these names later while
associating it with pods.
To view config maps, run the kube control.
Get Configmaps command.
This lists the newly created config map named Appconfig.
The describe configmaps command lists the configuration data as well under the data section.
Now that we have the config map created, let us proceed with step two.
Configuring it with a pod.
Here I have a simple pod definition file that runs my simple web application.
To inject an environment variable, add a new property to the container called env from the env from
property is a list so we can pass as many environment variables as required.
Each item in the list corresponds to a config map item.
Specify the name of the config map we created earlier.
This is how we inject a specific config map from the ones we created before creating the pod definition
file.
Now creates a web application with a blue background.
What we just saw was using config maps to inject environment variables.
There are other ways to inject configuration data into pods.
You can inject it as a single environment variable, or you can inject the whole data as files in a
volume.
We will look at some of these options in the coding exercises that accompany this lecture.
So head over to the coding exercises section and practice viewing, configuring and troubleshooting
environment variables on a live Kubernetes environment.

--- Lab: Env Variables ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Env Variables (Optional) ---

-: Okay, let's go over the lab for environment variables.
So the first question is how many pods exist on the system?
You see that there's just one pod.
Now, what is the environment variable name set
on the container in the pod?
So let's take a closer look at the pod.
Okay? And here we see the environment variable
is defined here, and it's app color is set to pink.
So it's app underscore color.
Now what is the value set
on the environment variable app color.
It is pink.
Now view the web application UI
by clicking on the web app color pink here.
So clicking on this opens
up the web application and it is indeed pink in color.
Now, update the environment variable
on the pod to display a green background
and delete and recreate the pod required.
So we are going to
do a kubectl edit
pod
and web app color
pod.
Now we know that it may not allow us
of course it's not gonna allow us to edit this on the pod
but we don't really care
because we just need the edited or updated manifest file
that we can then use to replace the pod.
So I'm just going to set it to green here and try and save
but it's going to come back saying it's forbidden
which is fine.
Just going to exit out of that.
But here we have the file
which has our edits.
If you look at it, you have the value green here.
So let's use that to replace
with force
to kill the existing pod
and let's run that and wait
for that pod to be deleted
and the new pod to be created.
Okay.
Let's check the work.
That's done.
Let's click on the link here and we see that it is green.
Let's proceed.
Okay, so the next question is about config maps.
So how many config maps exist in the default name space?
So
I'm gonna do a kubectl get config map
and we see that there are two.
Okay, the next question is to identify the database host
from the config map TB config.
So we're gonna do a kubectl describe
and use the short form for config map, which is cm.
And then DB config is the name of the config map.
So here you can see information that's in the config map.
So you have the DB host, the DB name, DB port
and what we are asked here is to identify the DB host
which happens to be SQL zero one dot example dot com.
So let's select that.
Now, create a new config map
for the web app color pod and using the spec below.
So we now have to create a new config map.
So we're gonna do a kubectl create config map.
Let's take a look at the help.
And here is the syntax.
I'm just showing these help commands.
So you could use, you could follow the same approach
in your exams
to get the commands easily.
So here we're given the data
which is app color equals dark blue.
This is what needs to go within the config map.
And so we don't want the the from file option.
What we want is the from literal option.
So something like this, we can use that command
and it is going to replace the name
with web app config map.
And this is going to be
color equals dark blue.
Let's verify.
Okay, so the config map is created
and you have the data app app color
and it's set to dark blue.
Let's proceed.
Now, update the environment variable
on the pod to use the newly created config map.
So now we've got to go and update the pod.
So we have to do kubectl edit pod
web app color
and here we have the environment variable.
So currently the environment variable is set directly
as name and value here.
But what we want to do is we want to get rid
of this and we want to
we want to get the environment variables from config map.
So we have to use the ENV from syntax.
So if you're not sure how that works
We go to Kubernetes documentation
and look at config map
and look at examples.
So here you have configure a pod to use a config map.
So this is basically what we want.
So here you have a config map creation steps.
What we want to do is find out
how to use config maps as environment variables
using config map data
something like this.
So you have, so you could either do this format
where you have specify environment variable, each one
and then you use a value from
and then specify the config map.
Or we could fit
in an entire config map itself using the ENV from.
So that's what we're going to choose here.
So something like this.
So we need ENV from, and then
config map ref.
So we're gonna copy that.
And here we're going to get rid of this.
Place that here.
And this should be
web app config app.
Okay, let's go ahead and try and save that.
It's not gonna work.
So we're just going to exit
from that and we'll use this file
to recreate.
We're gonna force replace and then pass in the file.
Let's wait for the part to be deleted and recreated.
Okay, so that's done.
Let's verify that it's done correctly.
Okay, so here we see the containers, the web app color
and we have the environment variables
from the config map configured here.
So let's go ahead and check our work.
That's correct.
And let's verify that it is dark blue.
Yep. So the web app has now changed its color to dark blue.
Okay, So that's the end of this lab.

--- Secrets ---

Welcome to this lecture on secrets in Kubernetes.
Here we have a simple Python web application that connects to a MySQL database.
On success, the application displays a successful message.
If you look closely into the code, you will see the host name, username and password hardcoded.
This is of course not a good idea.
As we learned in the previous lecture, one option would be to move these values into a config map.
The config map stores the configuration data in plain text format.
So while it would be okay to move the host name and username into a config map, it is definitely not
the right place to store a password.
This is where secrets come in.
Secrets are used to store sensitive information like passwords or keys.
They are similar to config maps, except that they are stored in an encoded or hashed format.
As with config maps.
There are two steps involved in working with secrets.
First, create the secret and second, inject it into pod.
There are two ways of creating a secret.
The imperative way without using a secret definition file and the declarative way.
By using a secret definition file with the imperative method, you can directly specify the key value
pairs in the command line itself to create a secret of the given values.
Run the cube control.
Create secret generic command.
The command is followed by the secret name and the option from literal.
The from literal option is used to specify the key value pairs in the command itself.
In this example, we are creating a secret by the name app secret with a key value pair db underscore
host equals MySQL.
If you wish to add additional key value pairs, simply specify the from literal options multiple times.
However, this could get complicated when you have too many secrets to pass in.
Another way to input the secret data is through a file.
Use the from file option to specify a path to the file that contains the required data.
The data from this file is read and stored under the name of the file.
Let us now look at the declarative approach.
For this we create a definition file just like how we did for the config map.
The file has API version kind metadata and data.
The API version is v1.
Kind is secret.
Under metadata specify the name of the secret.
We will call it app secret under data.
Add the secret data in a key value format.
However, one thing we discussed about secrets was that they are used to store sensitive data and are
stored in an encoded format.
Here we have specified the data in plain text, which is not very safe.
So while creating a secret with a declarative approach, you must specify the secret values in a hashed
format.
So you must specify the data in an encoded form like this.
But how do you convert the data from plain text to an encoded format on a Linux host?
Run the command echo n followed by the text you're trying to convert, which is MySQL in this case,
and pipe that to the base64 utility.
To view secrets.
Run the kube control.
Get secrets command.
This lists the newly created secret along with another secret previously created by Kubernetes for its
internal purposes.
To view more information on the newly created secret, run the Kube control describe secret command.
This shows the attributes in the secret, but hides the value themselves.
To view the values as well.
Run the Kube control.
Get secret command with the output displayed in YAML format using the O option.
You can now see the hashed values as well.
Now how do you decode these hashed values?
Use the same base64 command used earlier to encode it, but this time add a decode option to it.
Now that we have secret created, let us proceed with step two.
Configuring it with a pod.
Here I have a simple pod definition file that runs my application to inject an environment variable.
Add a new property to the container called env from the env from property is a list so we can pass as
many environment variables as required.
Each item in the list corresponds to a secret item.
Specify the name of the secret we created earlier.
Creating the pod definition file now makes the data in the secret available as environment variables
for the application.
What we just saw was injecting secrets as environment variables into the pods.
There are other ways to inject secrets into pods.
You can inject as single environment variables or inject the whole secret as files in a volume.
If you were to mount the secret as a volume in the pod, each attribute in the secret is created as
a file with the value of the secret as its content.
In this case, since we have three attributes in our secret, three files are created, and if we look
at the contents of the dbpassword file, we see the password in it.
That's it for this lecture.
Head over to the coding exercises and practice working with secrets.

--- Lab - Secrets ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Additional Resource ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Secrets (Optional) ---

-: Okay, so let's go through the lab for secrets.
So the first question is, how many secrets
exist on the system in the default name space?
So we're going to do a kubectl,
get secrets.
And there's just one.
So the answer is one.
How many secrets are defined in the default token secret?
So, I'm going to do a kubectl describe
secret.
And we see additional details.
And under the data section we have multiple details.
So we have the CS search, that's one.
And then you have the name space
and then you have the token.
And this, this entire text here
is the encoded
token.
So we have three.
That's the answer for that.
Now, what is the type of the default token secret?
So the type, as you can see,
it is a Kubernetes service account token.
So that's the type.
Now which of the following is not a secret data
defined in the default token?
So we know that the data is ca.cert, namespace, and token.
So that's namespace, CAcert and token, type is not a data.
So that's the answer to that.
Okay so, we're going to deploy an application
with the below architecture,
and we have already deployed the required pods and services.
Check out the pods and services created
and check out the web application,
using the web app, MySQL link, about.
So, let's first
check out
the deployment.
There are no deployments.
Let's check pods.
So there are two pods.
So you have a web app pod and a, and a MySQL pod.
So you have the MySQL pod,
and this is the web app pod.
And then there are two services.
So,
let's check services.
And there are, this we know is a default Kubernetes service
but you also have the web app service,
which happens to be this and the SQL zero one,
and SQL zero one
service,
which happens to be this.
So those are the services.
And then, secret.
So there's a default token secret,
but that's not the secret that's used here.
So the secret is required for the web application
to connect to the MySQL database.
So let's check the application status.
And here we can see that it's in a failed state.
It says," Failed connecting to the MySQL database."
The database host is not set.
The DB is not set.
And the password it is not set.
So, that's the error.
Let's proceed.
So the reason the application has failed
is because we have not created the secret object yet.
So let's create a new secret named, TB Secret,
with the data given below, so...
Let's create a secret.
So kubectl, create
secret,
and let's quickly check the help.
So when you create a secret,
you have to specify the type of secret.
So we're not gonna create a Docker registry or TLS.
We're just going to create a generic secret.
So let's check the help for that.
And
here we see
the syntax is to create, to create a secret,
is to specify secret generic,
and then the name of the secret,
followed by the data from a file.
Or,
it could be from multiple files.
Or it could just be from litter,
from literally on the,
just from the command line.
So we're gonna use this approach,
'cause we have the information right here.
So let's
do that.
Secret generics, don't forget generic.
The name of the secret is, DB Secret.
The, then we have from
literal,
DB post
equals SQL
zero one.
And then from
literal, again,
DB
user equals root.
And remember to, remember that these are case sensitive.
And then from literal again,
end DB
password equals
password one, two, three.
Let's verify
if it's created.
Describe DB
secret.
Describe secret.
End DB secret.
We see that it's created with the data DB host,
DB user and DB password.
Okay?
Okay, so that's a success.
Next is to configure a web app pod
to load environment variables from the newly created secret.
So,
let's check
pod out first.
So we have
the web app
pod,
and
currently
there are no secrets.
So,
let's edit the pod,
to add the secret.
But, if we don't know
how to do that,
let's first review the Kubernetes documentation pages
and look at secrets.
And let's go to the first one.
Okay, so we are at the page for secrets.
And here as you can read,
you must not create secret, as we created just now,
to store database credentials or, or passwords.
That's because data, the secret data is stored
in at CD as is, without any encryption.
So anyone who has access to the APS server can,
or, or that CD database
can read or even modify the secret, right?
So, we must enable the encryption at rest
or, or looking to enabling roll back,
role-based taxes controlled.
And so let's, let's go ahead and configure the secret,
find information on configuring the secret for the pod.
So you can see that here.
So here you have using a secret
and then you also have using secrets
as environment variables.
So there are multiple options here.
And
here's what, here's one that we could use
which is the envFrom what we did for the ConfigMap.
So we could use the envFrom and then specify
a secret key reference.
That way all the data stored in the secret
is gonna be passed through as environment variable.
So let's copy that.
And,
that's going to go into
the container section.
We can have this anywhere,
space that and the key name
should be
DB Secret.
Okay, let's save the file.
And I'm gonna allow us to edit it.
That's fine, we're gonna quit.
And let's do a Kubectl, replace, force...
and specify the file.
And we will just wait for the file,
for the pod to be deleted and recreated.
Okay, so that's done.
And let's verify
the pod.
We see that the environment variables
are read from the DB secret.
Okay, let's check this out.
Okay, that's configured correctly.
And let's go back and review the web application.
And we see that it's now a success.
It's able to read the environment variables
as we passed through, right?
And, yeah, of course remember, we should not,
you know, read passwords and display it like this.
But this is, this is a sample application
to prove how secrets can be passed
through as environment variables.
And this kind of helps us debug
if something is not passed through right.
Okay, so that's the end of this lab.

--- Demo: Encrypting Secret Data at Rest ---

Instructor: Okay, so in this video,
we're going to look into encrypting secret data at rest.
So if you go to the Kubernetes documentation pages
and under Tasks, you have Administer a Cluster
and Encrypting Secret Data at Rest,
you have these following documents.
I'm gonna follow this, but also kind of try and explain
what we are trying to do.
So the first thing, first things first,
I'm going to start up a Kubernetes playground.
So this is a single node cluster.
All right, so
this basically uses,
it is built with the kubeadm tool and has containerd.
I'm just gonna maximize this
and we'll just work on the terminal.
All right, so first things first,
I'm gonna first create a secret object.
So I'm going to do a kubectl create secret,
and I want a generic secret, so I'll do that,
and I'll probably create a secret from literal,
so I'm just going to copy this command.
Okay, so I'm gonna call it key1 and supersecret.
So that's my secret object.
So my secret object is created.
So if I now do a get secret,
I get to see my secret object.
And if I do a describe secret,
my-secret,
I get to see the secret name and the data.
If I wanna see a little bit more, I do a
dash o yaml
and I'm gonna do a get secret.
Okay and I get to see the data here.
Now if you look here, so this is key1,
and this is kind of the encoded format of the secret.
So remember that, you know, anyone could take this
and decode it and easily view the actual secret, right?
So if I do,
let me see if I have base64,
yup, I do.
So
gonna get that again.
So I'm gonna do a echo,
copy and paste this.
Let's pass it through base64 and do a decode.
And I get to the, the secret.
Okay, so that's the first thing to know
that the secrets object stored in the secret configuration
as you see it here is just Base64 encoded.
So if you just do a base64 decode, you're gonna see this.
So remember not to create your secret definition files
and push it to GitHub or something
because anyone could just pick this up and run this command
and see the secret, right?
So that's the first step, but I wanna make it clear
that the scope of this video is not really relevant
to this encoding here.
We are going to focus on the data
that's stored within the etc server.
Okay, so after we are done,
this part is still gonna remain the same.
So we're not really focusing on this part right here.
What we're focusing on
is how the data is stored in the etcd server,
so that's the focus.
So let's first look at how this data is stored
in the etcd server.
Okay, so for that, if you go to the bottom of this,
there is this command.
It uses the ETCDCTL_API version three.
It runs the etcdctl command,
passing the CA certificates for authentication,
and we're gonna get this particular secret.
So the way that it's stored in etcd
is it's stored in registry/secrets/default
and this is the secret name.
So let me first see if we have the etcdctl command line.
So we don't have that,
so the first step is to get that installed.
So I'm just gonna go apt-get install.
I think it's it etcd-client.
Yup, so if you do not have the etcd,
so remember that the etcd server is running in a pod.
So you can either ssh into the pod
and then run the etcdctl command from within that.
Or you wanna run it locally from your control plane node,
you could use the etcdctl client utility.
Now, if the client command line utility is not available,
you have different options
to install it on different systems.
So let me see.
Okay, so I have it installed on my machine
using the package etcd-client.
So look up for whatever it is
the version of etcd that you're running.
Okay, so that's there, so now we've got etcdctl utility.
So remember that's client only,
the server is still running on as a pod.
So if you do kubectl get pods dash kube-system,
I have the etcd control plane here, right?
Okay, so the next step is to run this.
So first, remember that you need the certificate files.
So let's see if we have that.
Yup, we do.
So under etcd, you have all the certificates files needed
for connecting or authenticating to the etcd server.
So that's good.
So I'm gonna copy this command.
Remember to set the version, ETCDCTL_API version to three,
and the name of the secret is secret1.
See what I created,
get secret,
so it's named my-secret,
so I'm gonna replace that with my-secret.
I'm gonna do a my-secret.
If I just run this command,
you can see that it kind of gives me
kind of a jumbled information,
but you can kind of see the secret there as is, right?
You can see the secret there in the text format.
To see it in this format,
you just need to append the hexdump to it
because sometimes you may not be able to see it
in the right format.
So this is the data that's stored in etcd.
And if you look closely,
you'll see that the secret that I have,
the password or whatever it is that I've stored,
is actually visible like this.
So the data is stored in etcd in an unencrypted format.
So anyone with access to etcd
will be able to just go through and get all the secrets
and other confidential information
stored as a secret object.
So that's the problem here.
So this is the problem that we are trying to solve
by enabling encryption at rest in etcd.
Now, if you go through this document,
first thing that it says is,
first we need to determine if encryption at rest
is already enabled or not.
So this is done with a property
called encryption-provider-config.
So if I go to my kube-api server,
so let's say my kube-api server
is running as a process here,
and let me just grep for kube-api server,
and I get to see the Kube API server process running
with all the options.
Let's first see if it has
the encryption-provider-config option.
So that's the first thing that we'll do.
This is to check if encryption at rest is already enabled.
And as you can see, it does not return a result.
So that means this option is not configured.
We can also kind of verify this
because this is a kubeadm setup,
it uses the
var
/manifest
etc/
kubernetes/manifests,
yeah, etc/kubernetes/manifests,
and here you have the kube-apiserver.
So configuration, so if you look at this particular file,
you can do a cat,
we'll be able to see all the options provided.
And here, you don't see the encryption option
that we've talked about here.
So this means that encryption at rest is not enabled.
So that's the first step, and we've already verified that
by creating the secrets object.
Okay, so the next step is to create a configuration file
and then pass it in as this particular option.
So that's it, so that's basically the steps required
to enable encryption, right?
You create a configuration file
and you pass it in as an option.
So let's look at the configuration file.
So this is what it is, so you have the API version,
you have the kind, it's encryption configuration,
and then you have resources.
Now, you can pick and choose
which resources you want to encrypt, right?
So you have pods and deployments and secrets and services.
Do you want to store all of them as encrypted?
You might not because not everything is confidential, right?
So you need not necessarily encrypt
and save all the data about pods and deployments.
Here our concern is just secrets.
So under Resources, you specify the targets.
So this is secrets, that means only the secret objects
are going to be encrypted.
Now, you can encrypt something
using a set of providers, right?
So the default one is called identity.
The identity provider just means
that there's no encryption at all.
So you can see the list of providers here,
and it says the identity provider says
there's no encryption.
Resources are written as-is without any encryption.
And then you have other providers which are these,
and those are listed here.
So you have the secretbox,
you have the aes, gcm, the aescbc,
so all of these are encryption algorithms,
different encryption algorithms,
and you can see the details
about how they encrypt here.
So you can choose whichever one you want and provide a key.
So this key has a secret.
You can provide multiple keys, keys and secrets,
and this secret is what will be used
for the encryption by the encryption algorithm.
Now, one thing to note here is the order.
As you can see, providers is a list.
So this is the first item in the list,
second item in the list, third item,
and fourth item in the list.
So this order matters
because when the encryption happens,
at first it uses this to encrypt
and then it could use any of these to decrypt, right?
So always encryption happens with this.
So if identity provider,
which has no encryption is the first one,
then there's no encryption enabled at all.
So that's how it works.
So if this is the first one,
that means this is what is going to be used for encryption.
And since it's identity,
it's not going to encrypt anything at all.
So if you really want to encrypt the data in etcd,
then one of these should be at the top.
Okay, whatever is the first one
is what's going to be used for encryption.
So let's just do this real quick.
So we're gonna create a very simple version of this file,
which is this,
and this, as you can see, we have specified
that all the secrets are gonna be encrypted
and we're gonna use the aescbc encryption provider.
And as you can see, identity is at the bottom.
So the first one is aescbc,
so this is what is going to be used for encryption.
Now, this requires a secret object.
So we could generate a 32-byte random key using this.
I'm just gonna copy this,
I'm gonna get that key first.
So that's what our key is going to be.
Then I'm gonna copy this
and create encryption object file.
So I'll call it enc.yaml
and I'm gonna paste this,
okay, should have copied the secret value first.
I'm gonna copy this
and I'm gonna go here and replace the secret object here.
Okay.
Okay, so that's that.
So now I have the encryption configuration file.
It's currently in my home directory.
Now all I need to do is go and edit this file.
So that's the next step shown here.
So in the kube-apiserver, I'm gonna add this line
to point to the encryption file that I just created.
Then, of course, we need to,
since the file is created locally,
I have to mount it inside,
so I'm gonna use volumes and volume mount.
If you have not gone through the volumes
and volume mounts yet,
then you might want to take a look at that and come back.
But this is pretty straightforward.
So here you have the directory, the local directory,
and that's on my control panel node here.
And this directory is gonna be mapped
to this path within the pod.
So anything that's available here
is gonna be available here.
That's it, right?
So first, I'm gonna create this local directory
so that I can put my file there.
Okay, I'm gonna move my encryption file from here
to that local directory.
Make sure.
Yup, so I have the file there.
So now I'm gonna edit the kube-apiserver manifest file
and then make these changes.
Okay, so that's the next step.
So I'm gonna go into etc/kubernetes/manifests
/kube-apiserver.
And the first thing that I'm gonna do
is I'm going to add this line.
So this is what tells
where the encryption configuration file is.
So that's the first step.
And then I'm gonna go down.
So I have two things. I have volume mount.
So this is inside my volume,
inside the pod where it is gonna be mounted.
So I'm gonna copy this.
So the directory, the local directory
is gonna be mounted into this path.
So that's the first step.
And then below under mount, I'm going to
specify the location of my local directory.
Okay, so this is how it works on my local host,
the etc/kubernetes/enc directory is going to be mapped to
the etc/kubernetes/enc directory inside the pod.
And then,
so since my enc.yaml file is available locally,
that file is gonna be available inside.
And that's it. Okay, let me save that.
So now that I've saved and made changes to this file,
the kube-apiserver should be restarting.
So let's just give it a few seconds. Let's see.
Okay, so this is now, it's now gone, so I'm gonna wait
for it to come back.
Waiting.
And if you wanna see the status of the kube-apiserver,
since we are using containerd,
so you could use the crictl command.
So you could do the crictl pods to see.
It's come up, okay,
so it looks like it's ready three seconds ago.
Just gonna do, yup, so it's back.
Okay, so now let's do a ps aux
and grep for kube-apiserver.
And let's see if it has,
just to confirm if it has the encryption.
Yeah, so it looks like it has
the encryption provider configured.
Okay, so that's good.
Now what we're going to do
is we're going to create another secrets file.
So we're going to create a secret object.
So we're gonna do a kubectl create secret generic.
Okay, and we are going to,
let's pick this,
and this time we'll just create the second one,
which is key2.
So you have key2 and it's called, the value is topsecret.
Create that.
My secret already exists.
I'm gonna say my-secret-2 maybe. Yup.
Okay, so I now have two.
This is the first one I created.
This is the second one I just created
after encryption was enabled.
So I'm gonna go and run the same command
as I did previously to check the status
of that within etcd
So run this
and the name is my-secret-2.
Okay, and as you can see,
I can no longer see the topsecret.
So the value was topsecret
and no longer see that here.
That means encryption is enabled.
Okay, and if I do the same for the old one,
I still see the supersecret.
Now this is because after encryption is enabled,
only things that you create newly will be encrypted.
Everything that existed previously won't be re-encrypted.
But if you update an existing configuration,
then that will be re-encrypted.
So one other thing that you have here
is to ensure all secrets are encrypted
and what this is doing
is basically you're getting the secrets
and then just replacing them with the same JSON file.
So essentially, you're just updating the objects
with the same data.
So I'm just gonna do that. So that's done.
And if I run the same command again,
I see that I can no longer see the supersecret.
All right, so that's basically encrypting
secret data at rest
using one of these encryption algorithms.
Right, thank you very much and I'll see you in the next one.

--- A Note on Secrets ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Scale Applications ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Multi Container Pods ---

In this lecture we will talk about Multi-container pods in Kubernetes.
The idea of decoupling a large monolithic application into subcomponents known as microservices enable
us to develop and deploy a set of independent, small and reusable code.
This architecture then helps us scale up and down, as well as modify each service as required, as
opposed to modifying the entire application.
However, at times you may need two services to work together, such as a web server with the main app.
You need one web server per each app instance paired together.
You don't want to merge and bloat the code of the two services, as each of them target different features,
and you still like them to be developed and deployed separately.
You only need the two functionality to work together.
You need one web server per main app instance paired together so they can scale up and down together.
And that is why you have multi-container pods that share the same lifecycle, which means they are created
together and destroyed together.
They share the same network space, which means they can refer to each other as localhost.
And they have access to the same storage volumes.
This way you do not have to establish volume sharing or services between the pods to enable communication
between them.
So to create a multi-container pod, add the new container information to the pod definition file.
Now remember the container section under the spec section in a Pod definition file is an array.
And the reason it is an array is to allow multiple containers in a single pod.
So now I've added a another container with the name main app and the image main app.
So in this case we add a new container named a web app as container one.
And then we have another container named as main app as container two.
This is a very simple example.
We will look at more realistic examples later in this course.

--- Multi container Pods Design Pattern ---

Let us now look at the different multi-container pods design patterns.
So there are different patterns for multi-container pods.
What we just saw was the co-located containers.
This is the original form of Multi-container.
It's as simple as two containers running in a pod.
Both the containers are meant to continue to run throughout the entire pod lifecycle.
These are usually used when two services are dependent on each other.
Next is the init containers or the init containers as it's called these days.
This is used when there are initialization steps to be performed when a pod starts before the main application
itself.
For example, this could be an init container that waits for a database to be ready before starting
the main application.
The init container does its job and ends its job, and then the main application starts.
The third type is known as the sidecar container.
A sidecar container is set up like an init container where the sidecar starts first, does its job,
but instead of ending its run, it continues to run throughout the life cycle of the pod.
The main application starts after the sidecar container starts.
This is useful when you have a log shipper of sorts that needs to be run, along with the main application
that needs to start before the main app starts, but continue to run as long as the main app runs and
then end after the main app ends.
So these are the three.
The init container is differentiated well because we know that in in terms of the init container, it
starts and then stops, and then the main app runs.
However, the first and the last.
So the co-located containers and the sidecar containers can be a bit confusing.
So why are there two if they kind of serve the same purpose?
Right.
In both of those cases, you can see that the pods are running throughout the lifecycle.
cycle.
So then what's the difference between the first and the last?
So the main difference is that with the co-located containers, the first one, there is no ability
to define which container starts first and the order of that startup.
So both of those containers are defined as and as elements in an in an array there is no differentiation
between them.
So it all starts together.
And there is no guarantee that one would start before the other.
So if that's not a real requirement for your use case, you may use that option.
However, the Sidecar Containers option provides the ability to specify an order of startup and then
continue to run throughout the pod lifecycle.
So we'll see how to do that in the upcoming slides.
So let's start with the first one.
So here we have the pod definition file for the original uh, the co-located containers.
In this case you can see that the container section is an array and it has two elements in the array
two containers specified in the array.
So when the pod is created, both of them start.
There's no particular order in which they start and they continue to run.
Next we have the regular init containers.
So this is where instead of adding another container as the second item in the containers list, we
define a separate property altogether called init containers.
And under that we follow the same pattern as we do for containers.
So under that we have the name and image and command as we do for the main container.
This init container by default runs at the start and ends its run.
In this case, once the wait for db to start script ends, then the main container starts.
So you could define multiple init containers too, so that they can be run sequentially.
For example, you could have another init container defined as a second item in the list, in this case.
The second item is called an API checker and it waits for another API to be started.
So what happens is first the checker script runs that container, runs and ends, and it ends that run.
And then the second container init container starts, the API checker starts and then it ends its run.
And then the main application starts.
And then it continues to run until the end of the pod lifecycle.
So that's how you can define an order of startup for the init containers.
Now the third pattern is the sidecar containers.
So this is where we still use the init container approach.
So as you can see the code is still there.
Um and this ensures that the init container starts first.
And once they're ready the main app starts.
However the init container continues to run as it has a restart policy set to always.
So this will also ensure the init container is terminated after the main application stops.
That way the log shipper can catch the startup and termination logs of the main container.
So here's a more realistic example using the elastic search and Kibana stack.
So this is a log collection aggregation framework.
And where the elastic search is itself is a component that captures the logs from different endpoints,
different applications.
And Kibana is a visualizer that visualizes the logs, which is what which is a dashboard that users
or administrators look at.
So in this case, what we do is along with the app, we add a sidecar called Filebeat, which comes
along with Elasticsearch.
And that starts before the main app starts, so that it can capture the startup logs of the application,
and then ends after the main app ends, so that it can capture any termination logs in case the in case
the application ended due to any bugs, the termination log needs to be captured so that can be diagnosed
and that is achieved using a sidecar container.
Well, that's all for this lecture.

--- Lab - Multi Container Pods ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- InitContainers ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Init Containers ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Init Containers (Optional) ---

-: Okay, so in this video we're going to go through
the lab on Init containers.
So first let's identify the pod
that has an Init container configured.
So let's look at the pods that are available.
And we see that there are three pods, red, green, and blue.
And we need to identify the one that has
an Init container available.
So from the looks of it from here, it looks like this is
the green is the one that has two containers.
But let's look at all of the pods in more detail.
So let's do a describe, You cut describe pod.
And if you don't specify any pod name,
it's going to list the description of all the pods.
So if you look at red to begin with, it has containers
it has red container.
And if you look at green, it has two containers.
So this is a green container 1 and a green container 2.
But none of these are Init containers, right?
So in Init containers will be
in a separate section called Init containers.
But these, these are not Init containers.
And if you look at blue here we have
an Init container section and we have a container section.
So it is blue that has an Init container configured.
So if you look at the output of the get pause command
remember that it does not show up
the detail of Init container here.
This does not account for the Init container
it only accounts for the actual containers for that pod.
So the answer to this is blue.
Now what is the image used by
the Init container on the blue pod, is still
describe and let's see, the Init container it has a
container called Init service and the image is busy box.
So busy box is the answer.
Now what is the state of the Init container on pod blue?
So if you look at the state, it says terminated,
so terminated is the state.
And why is the Init container terminated?
And what is the reason?
So if you look at the line below,
it says the reason is completed.
So if you look at this,
the way that the Init container is set up,
it has an image called busy box, it has a command
and it's just a command that runs asleep in a shelf,
so it just runs sleep for five seconds.
So whenever this pod is created,
when this pod was created, this Init container kicks in
it just sleeps for five seconds
and it just terminates that container
and then the actual containers are spun up.
So it's a simple setup for this, and that's the reason
since this sleep command completed successfully
the exit code is zero
and that's why the reason is completed.
So the process do not crash, the process cannot start,
now the process completed successfully
and that's why it has exit code zero here.
Okay, now we just created a new app named Purple so, let's
look at this and
how many Init container does it have?
So let's look at this odd
in a bit more detail.
And here you see that you have the Init container section.
You have one container here, and you have another one here,
so there are two, so that's one, one and one of two and
so that's two, two is the answer to the question.
Now, what is the state of the pod?
So if you look at the state of the pod here,
under get pod under the output of get pod,
it's Init02. And over here under status
you can see that it's in a pending state so the,
the state is pending.
Now how long after the creation of the pod
will the application come up and be available to users?
So let's take a look at how this pod is set up.
So this pod has a purple container,
which is the app right here
but it has two Init containers.
So you have the warmup 1 and warmup 2 Init containers.
And the first one has a command
set to sleep for 600 seconds.
And the second Init container has a command
set to sleep for 1200 seconds so
this is gonna run first and then this is gonna run after.
So you can have multiple Init containers
change like this if required.
So this is going to be 10 minutes
and this is 20 minutes.
So in total, before this actually comes up
the Init containers are going to just sleep for 30 minutes.
So only after 30 minutes will this come up.
So yeah, it's a silly use case but
it's just a very simple example to help you understand
how the Init containers work.
So that's 30 minutes.
Now this could be, you know, anything in real life,
and this could be things that, you know, prepare a database
or prepare some startup scripts, stuff like that.
And that is, that has to be run before the actual
application comes up.
Okay so, update the next question is to
update the pod red to use an Init container.
So there is a pod red,
it has one container and it's in the running state
and we need to update it to use an image container
that uses a busy box image and sleeps for 20 seconds.
So let's do an edit pod red
and we have the in container section here,
so we're gonna add a section called Init containers
and then here we have the image,
so the image is busy box,
and then we have
the names so this could be any name,
let just say busy box
and as a command,
so the command is to sleep
for 20 seconds.
Okay so that's it, let's save that.
And of course it didn't allow us to save
so we're just gonna quit,
we're gonna do a replace force, and this
and let's just wait for the pod
to terminate and recreate.
Okay, so that's done. Let's check,
let's go next.
Now a new application orange is deployed,
there is something wrong with it,
identify and fix the issue
and once fixed, wait for the application to run
before checking the solution.
So let's check the application called Pod.
And it has one container and it's in a
Init CrashLoopBackOff.
So let's take a closer look at why it's failing.
So if you look at this pod,
we see that it has Init containers,
there's one Init container called Init my service,
and there's a container called Orange container
and it's just a simple app.
And here, if you look at this,
it says back off, restarting failed container.
So one of the containers seems to be,
you know failing and restarting.
And if you look at it here, it says Init crashed
so back off indicates that it is Init container that's
failing and that's what is being restarted.
So one of the thing that we could look at
when that happens is the logs.
So you could look at the logs of
a pod using the kubectl locks command
and we're gonna specify orange as the pod,
but we're not gonna have
but just running logs is just
always going to fetch logs from the orange container.
But the orange container in the orange pod
is just waiting to be restarted, waiting to start
because it's actually in an initializing state.
So let's find out what's happening with the
let's look at the logs of the container,
which is the Init container.
So for that you specify that C
and then give the container name, which is
Init my service, and here you see that
it says sleep not found.
So the, it seems to be a typo in the sleep command.
So if you look at how that Init container is configured
you see that there's a command section and you have
the sleep command, but it has a typo in it
and that's basically the reason it's filling.
And you see that the state is terminated,
but this time the reason is error as opposed to completed
as it is before.
And then the exit code is is 127, right?
So, and it's just, it just keeps restarting until you know,
until it's fixed. So let's go ahead and fix that.
Let's do a kubectl edit or Orange
and go to Init containers,
we're going to fix this.
Just fix the typo and we'll save that
and surprise, surprise
and save that so we're going to
just do a kubectl replace, force -f
with this file. Okay, so that's replaced.
Let's check, the status now.
And we see that the Init container has a command
which is now correct and it's already terminated
and it's completed. Exit code is now zero.
Check the status of the pod,
it's now in a running state.
Let's check, check it now. Okay, so that's done.
Well, that's the end of this lab
and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Self Healing Applications ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates) Introduction to Autoscaling? ---

In the next few videos, we will talk about auto scaling from an exam point of view.
We're going to talk about horizontal pod auto scaling or HPA vertical pod auto scaling or VPA.
And because this is only one of the topics for the exam, we're going to keep it as light as possible.
However, note that this is a vast topic and we have an entire course just for it on code cloud called
as Kubernetes Auto Scaling.
So I highly recommend you check that out.
Okay, now before we begin to look at auto scaling, let's look at what scaling means in the first place.
So let's forget about Kubernetes and containers for a second and go back to the plain old servers and
apps hosted on physical servers.
And so if you go back in time, millions and millions of years ago, when we used to host applications
on physical servers with a predefined CPU and memory capacity.
And what happens when the load increases and we run out of existing resources on the server.
Now we need to scale up the server.
So we took down the application and added more CPU or memory resources to it and then powered it back
up.
And that's referred to as vertical scaling.
So as you just saw we basically increase the size of the existing server vertically.
We added more resources to our existing server by adding more CPU and memory components to it vertically.
And so that's vertical scaling if the application supported running in multiple instances.
Another thing we could have done is that we could have avoided having to shut down the server.
Instead, we could have added more servers to it and shared load between them.
So running more instances of the application by adding more servers is known as horizontal scaling.
So that's the basics of scaling.
Vertical scaling refers to adding more resources to existing application, and horizontal scaling refers
to adding more instances or more servers to your system.
Now let's look at how that relates to Kubernetes and the container world.
When we first introduced Kubernetes, we mentioned that one of the major purposes of a container orchestrator
like Kubernetes is to host applications in the form of containers and scale up and down based on demand.
So there are two types of scaling in Kubernetes.
What we just spoke about, uh, is scaling workloads.
So you can scale the workloads by adding or removing containers or pods onto the cluster.
Another approach to scaling is scaling the underlying cluster itself.
So that's adding or removing more servers or infrastructure to your cluster.
So there's scaling workloads and scaling the cluster infra.
So let's look at what these mean.
So there are two ways of scaling these individually.
So there's horizontal and vertical scaling.
So when it comes to the cluster horizontal scaling refers to adding more nodes to the cluster.
Vertical scaling would mean increasing the resources on existing nodes in the cluster.
When it comes to scaling workloads, horizontal scaling would mean creating more pods and vertical scaling
would mean increasing the resources allocated to existing pods.
Now let's talk about the how.
So there are two ways of scaling.
There's the manual way and the automated way.
The manual approach of horizontally scaling cluster infra would be to manually provision new nodes and
then use the kube adm join command to add new nodes to the cluster.
When it comes to vertical scaling, I don't think that's a common approach used for Kubernetes, because
it would result in having to take down the server and applications running on them, and then add more
resources to the servers and bring it back up, which is not something that we would want to do.
So since most of the infra these days are virtual machines, you could easily provision a server with
higher resources, add it to the cluster and remove the older server.
So I don't think vertical scaling is that common of an approach.
Now when it comes to horizontal scaling Rescaling workloads.
The manual approach would be to run the kubectl scale command on the workload, to scale up or down
the number of pods, and to vertically scale resources associated to a pod.
You would usually run the kubectl edit command to go in to that deployment or stateful set or replica
set, and change the resource limits and requests associated with the pods.
Now we will dive into more details about each of these in the upcoming lectures, but I'm just giving
you a high level overview right now.
Now, now that we have discussed all of this, finally let's look at the automated approach.
So for horizontally scaling the infra we have what is known as the Kubernetes cluster autoscaler.
For horizontally scaling the workloads we have what is known as the horizontal pod autoscaler or HPA.
And for vertically scaling workloads we have the vertical Pod autoscaler.
So that, my friends, are the topic of discussion for the rest of this section.
I'll see you in the next video.

--- (2025 Updates) Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA)? ---

Let us now look at horizontal pod autoscaler in Kubernetes.
Let's start by looking at how I would manually scale a workload horizontally.
So I'm a Kubernetes administrator, and I'm sitting on my machine looking at a cluster.
And I'm tasked to make sure that there is always sufficient workload to support demand for this application.
From a deployment configuration perspective, I see this pod requests 250 milli CPU and has a limit
of 500 millicores of CPU.
This means that 500 Millicores is the max the CPU it gets, after which it doesn't get any more.
Um, and the capacity that a single pod can handle is 500 millicores of CPU.
So I would run the kubectl top pod command and monitor the resource consumption of the pod.
If I had to do it manually.
Now remember that you must have the metrics server running on the cluster to be able to monitor the
resource usage like this.
Now, when it reaches the threshold of 450 millicores or whatever it is that I have defined as the threshold
or close to that.
I would run the kubectl scale command to scale the deployment to add additional pods.
So that's the manual way to scale a workload.
The problems with this approach is that I have to sit in front of my computer and continuously monitor
resource usage.
I need to manually run commands to scale up and down.
And if there's a sudden traffic spike and I want a break or something, I may not be able to react fast
enough to support the spike in the application or in the traffic.
So to solve this, we use the Horizontal Pod autoscaler.
So the horizontal Pod autoscaler continuously monitors the metrics as we did manually using the top
command.
It then automatically increases or decreases the number of pods in a deployment Statefulset or replica
set based on the CPU, memory, or custom metrics.
And if the CPU, memory, or memory usage goes too high, HPA creates more paths to handle that, and
if it drops, it removes the extra pods to save resources and thus balances the thresholds.
And note that it can also track multiple different types of metrics, which we will refer to in in a
few minutes.
So let's see this in action.
For the given nginx deployment, we can configure a horizontal pod autoscaler by running the kubectl
autoscale command, targeting the deployment myapp, and specifying a CPU threshold of 50% with a minimum
of one and maximum of ten pods.
So when this command is run, Kubernetes creates a horizontal pod autoscaler for this deployment that
first reads the limits configured on the pod, and then learns that it's set to 500 milli core.
It then continuously pulls the metric server to monitor the usage, and when the usage goes beyond 50%,
it modifies the number of replicas to scale up or down, depending on the usage.
So to view the status of the created HPA, run the kubectl get HPA command and it lists the current
HPA.
The targets column shows the current CPU usage versus the threshold we have set, and the minimum and
maximum and the current count of replicas.
So it would never go beyond the maximum that we have specified when scaling up, and it would not go
beyond the minimum that we specified when scaling down.
And when you no longer need the HPA, you can delete it using the kubectl delete HPA command.
Now that was the imperative approach to creating an HPA.
There's also a declarative approach.
So create an HPA definition file with the API version set to auto scaling v2 kind is set to horizontal
pod autoscaler.
The name is set to Myapp HPA and then we have the scale target ref.
This is the target resource we want the HPA to monitor.
That's the deployment named Myapp.
We also have the min and max replicas defined.
And then we have configured the metrics and resources to monitor in this case the resource being CPU
and target utilization, uh being 50%.
Now note that HPA comes built in with Kubernetes since version 1.23, so there is no separate installation
procedures required.
Note that it relies on metric server, so that is a prerequisite.
So talking about metric server we spoke about the metric server that HPA depends on to get current resource
utilization numbers.
Now what we have been referring to is the internal metric server.
But there are also other sources that we can refer to, such as a custom metrics adapter that can retrieve
information from other internal sources, like a workload deployed in a cluster.
However, these are still internal sources.
We can also refer to external sources, such as tools or other instances that are outside of the Kubernetes
cluster, such as a Datadog.
Or Dynatrace instance using an external adapter.
However, these are beyond the scope of this course, so more details and labs about these are available
in our Kubernetes Auto Scaling course.
To keep the scope just enough for the exam, this is all that we will discuss about HPA for now.
Well, thank you so much for watching.
Head over to the labs and I'll see you in the next one.

--- (2025 Updates) Lab - Manual Scaling? ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates) Lab - HPA? ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates) In-Place Resize of Pods? ---

Let us now look at in-place resizing of pods.
So before we talk about Vertical Pod autoscaler, I thought it would be a good idea to talk about in-place
resize of pod resources.
So what does that mean?
Now as of this recording, which is Kubernetes version 1.32 has has released, if you change resource
requirements of a pod in a deployment, the default behavior is to delete the existing pod and then
spin up a new pod with the new changes.
So any resource, any changes to the resource definitions on pod.
Uh ah.
Does not happen in place.
Which means the pod needs to be killed.
And the new pod with the new resource definitions need to be created.
So that's the default behavior.
Now we know that this can be disruptive, especially for stateful workloads.
So uh, there is an improvement that is being worked upon called as in-place update of Pod resources.
This is a feature that is currently in alpha as of Kubernetes release 1.27, and is not enabled by default,
and when it goes to the beta or stable stage in the future, it will become enabled by default.
But as of this recording it is not.
So it is still available with the features that are part of the Kubernetes cluster.
You just have to enable it.
So to enable this feature, you must set the feature flag called in-place pod vertical scaling to true.
And once this is enabled, the Pod definition supports a set of resize policy parameters, which we
will look at next.
So the new resize policy options allow you to specify a restart policy for each resource.
In this example, we have defined that a change in CPU resource will not require the pod to be restarted,
and a change in memory will require a restart of the pod.
And the next we make a change to a resource such as updating the CPU to one, and you can see that the
pod does not need to be killed.
Instead, it can simply be updated with the new resources and so it can just increase in size.
So that explains how we can resize a CPU or memory resource assigned to a container without really restarting
it.
And this feature is currently in alpha with version 1.33.
Release of Kubernetes.
This is meant to be released as a beta feature, and in the future will be available as a stable feature.
So now remember that we're still talking about manually scaling a pod, so we're not really talking
about Vertical Pod Autoscaler yet.
So in the next video we'll talk about Vertical Pod Autoscaler, but let's also look at some of the limitations.
So some of the limitations of in place resizing of pods to keep in mind is that this only works for
CPU and memory resources.
Pod, QoS class, etc. cannot be changed.
Init containers and ephemeral containers cannot be resized with this approach.
Resource requests and limits cannot be moved once they are set.
A containers memory limit may not be reduced below its usage.
If a request puts a container in the state, the resize status will remain in progress until the desired
memory limit becomes feasible.
And finally, windows pods cannot be resized as of now.
Well, that's it for this one.

--- (2025 Updates) Vertical Pod Autoscaling (VPA)? ---

1
Let's now look at Vertical Pod Autoscaler
2
in Kubernetes.
3
So let's start by looking at
4
how I would manually scale a workload vertically.
5
Say I am a Kubernetes administrator
6
and I'm sitting on my machine looking at a cluster,
7
I'm tasked to make sure
8
that there is always sufficient workload
9
to support demand for this application.
10
And from the deployment configuration,
11
I see that this pod requests a 250 milli cores of CPU
12
and has a limit of 500 milli cores of CPU.
13
And this means that 500 milli cores
14
is the max capacity it gets.
15
So as I did before,
16
I would run the kubectl top pod command
17
and monitor the resource consumption of the pod.
18
And so remember that you must have the metric server running
19
on the cluster to be able to monitor as the same as before.
20
And when it reaches a specific threshold,
21
what I'm going to do to scale the pod vertically
22
is run the kubectl edit deployment command.
23
So I would run the edit deployment command
24
and I would change the resource requests and limits
25
assigned to the deployment under the pod template,
26
under the container section, and then save it.
27
And what would happen is it would then kill that pod
28
and create a new pod.
29
So that's basically how I would do it manually.
30
Now of course we don't wanna do it manually.
31
We have the vertical pod autoscaler for that.
32
So similar to the horizontal pod autoscaler,
33
the vertical pod autoscaler
34
continuously monitors the metrics
35
and then it automatically increases
36
or decreases the resources assigned to the pods
37
in a deployment
38
and thus balances the workload.
39
So let's look at it in a bit more detail.
40
So unlike the horizontal pod autoscaler,
41
the vertical pod autoscaler do not come built-in,
42
as such, we must deploy it.
43
So we first apply the vertical pod autoscaler
44
definition file available in the GitHub repo.
45
And then when we run the kubectl get pods command
46
in the cube system namespace
47
and search for VPA,
48
we'll be able to see
49
that there are multiple components deployed.
50
So there is the admission controller recommender
51
and the updater service, which should be running.
52
So let's look at what those are.
53
So the VPA deployment consists of multiple components.
54
So there's the VPA admission controller,
55
the updater, and the recommender.
56
So the recommender is responsible
57
for continuously monitoring resource usage
58
from the Kubernetes metrics API,
59
and collects historical and live usage data for pods,
60
and then provides recommendations
61
on optimal CPU and memory values.
62
And the recommender itself does not modify the pod directly,
63
or it only suggests changes.
64
The updater detects pods that are running
65
with suboptimal resources
66
and evicts them when an update is needed.
67
So it gets the information from the recommender
68
and monitors the pod.
69
And if a pod needs to be updated, it evicts them.
70
That means it just terminates the pod.
71
And the admission controller intervenes
72
the pod creation process
73
and uses the recommendations from the recommender again,
74
to then mutate the pod spec
75
to apply the recommended CPU and memory values at startup.
76
And this ensures that the newly created pods
77
start with the correct resource requests.
78
So basically the VPA recommender collects information,
79
the updater monitors
80
or gets the information from the recommender,
81
compares that to the actual pod.
82
And if the pod is beyond the threshold, it kills the pod
83
and whether it kills or not,
84
that depends on the policy
85
that we'll talk about in a bit.
86
But ideally it would kill the pod
87
and then the admission controller intervenes
88
because when a pod is killed,
89
it's automatically,
90
the deployment will automatically recreate the pod.
91
And when it does that, the admission controller intervenes
92
and updates the resources so that the pod is now,
93
now comes up with the new size.
94
So let's look at how to create the VPA service
95
using a definition file.
96
So not that there's no imperative match to create a VPA
97
because it's not a built-in component like the HPA.
98
So here we have the API version,
99
which is autoscaling.k8s.io/v1.
100
The kind is vertical pod autoscaler.
101
The name is my app VPA.
102
The target to monitor is the my app deployment.
103
The container policies define what is monitored,
104
in this case, the CPU minimum allowed
105
and max allowed are configured.
106
And finally we have the update policy mode.
107
So there are four modes that VPA operates in.
108
The off mode, which only recommends changes
109
but does not do anything.
110
So in this case,
111
it's only the recommender working,
112
the updater and the admission controllers are not working.
113
In case of the off-mode.
114
The initial mode that only changes pods on creation,
115
not later.
116
So in the initial mode, the recommender recommends a change.
117
And when the deployment is scaled for some other reason
118
and the new pods come up,
119
the admission controller intervenes
120
and changes the pods resource definitions.
121
The updater in this case does not work to kill
122
or take down the pod.
123
In case of the recreate mode,
124
that's where the updater component jumps in
125
and evicts an existing pod,
126
when its resource consumption goes beyond range specified.
127
And finally, we have the auto mode
128
that updates existing pods to the recommended numbers.
129
Again, for now, this behavior is similar to recreate.
130
So as of now, the auto mode works exactly
131
as a recreate mode.
132
But when the support for the in-place a bit of Pod resources
133
is available,
134
the one that we spoke about in the previous video,
135
then that mode would be preferred over recreate.
136
So that auto-mode is really built for the future.
137
When the in-place update of pod resources are available
138
in stable version of Kubernetes,
139
that would be the default behavior.
140
But as of now, the auto-mode works exactly like recreate,
141
where if a pod goes beyond a range, it is killed.
142
Now VPA will monitor resource usage and suggest adjustments.
143
So we can check the recommendations
144
with the command kubectl describe VPA
145
followed by the name of the VPA.
146
And here you can see the recommendation.
147
So VPAs are just increasing CPU to 1.5.
148
So we spoke about horizontal and vertical pod autoscalers,
149
but you must be wondering when to use which.
150
So let's kind of compare the two.
151
First, let's look at the scaling methods.
152
So VPA as we know works by increasing CPU and memory
153
for existing pods
154
or by just recreating those pods with the new resources.
155
Whereas HPA adds or removes pods based on demand.
156
This means that the VPA optimizes
157
individual pod performance,
158
while HPA focuses on distributing the load
159
across multiple instances.
160
Next, in terms of pod behavior, VPA restarts pods
161
to apply the new resource values.
162
This means downtime is involved when scaling up vertically.
163
In contrast, HPA keeps existing pods running
164
and simply spins up new ones
165
ensuring continuous availability.
166
Now what about handling traffic spikes?
167
So HPA is clearly the winner here.
168
It instantly adds more pods when demand increases,
169
making it the preferred choice for applications
170
that require rapid scaling.
171
And VPA on the other hand
172
cannot handle sudden spikes efficiently
173
because it requires restarting pods typically,
174
which introduces delays.
175
Now, from a cost optimization perspective,
176
both have advantages.
177
So VPA prevents over provisioning
178
by adjusting CPU and memory allocation
179
to match actual usage.
180
And HPA on the other hand,
181
avoids unnecessary idle pods
182
ensuring that resources are used efficiently
183
without keeping excess instances running.
184
So when should you use which?
185
So VPA is best suited for stateful workloads
186
and CPU or memory heavy applications such as databases,
187
JVM-based applications, AI and other workloads
188
that require fine-tuned resources.
189
So let's say some applications require
190
like heavy CPU in the initial startup,
191
but then later does not require that much CPU.
192
What you could do is that's where VPA comes in.
193
So you could start the instance with a lot of CPU
194
and once that initialization process is over,
195
I mean when it needs to reduce the CPU memory usage
196
allocated to it, then that's where VPA comes into picture.
197
The HPA is ideal for web applications,
198
microservices and stateless services
199
such as web servers, message queues,
200
and API-based applications where quick scaling is needed
201
to handle fluctuating traffic.
202
So in summary, VPA is about optimizing resource allocation
203
for individual pods,
204
while HPA is about scaling the number of pods dynamically
205
based on demand.
206
So choosing the right autoscaler
207
depends on the workload type
208
and how you need to scale your application.
209
All right, that's all for this lesson.
210
Head over to the labs,
211
and get your hands-on practicing with VPA.

--- (2025 Updates) Lab - Install VPA? ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates) Lab - Modifying CPU resources in VPA? ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

