--- Cluster Maintenance - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello, this is (indistinct)
and we are going through
the certified Kubernetes Administrator's course.
In this lecture,
we discuss about cluster maintenance related topics.
We start by looking at operating system upgrades.
We see the implications of losing a node from the cluster
or when you take a note out of the cluster on purpose
like for applying patches or upgrades on the OS itself.
We then look at the cluster upgrade process.
But before we do that, we need to know a little bit
about Kubernetes releases and versions
and the best practices around upgrading, when to upgrade,
what version to upgrade to, et cetera.
So we look at that first.
Once you learn the upgrade procedure,
you are asked to upgrade a cluster by yourself.
You will perform an end-to-end upgrade of a cluster yourself
with live applications running on them.
And finally, we look at some
of the backup and restore methodologies.
You will practice a disaster recovery scenario
where you take a backup of the Kubernetes cluster
then go through a simulated disaster
and then you're asked to recover from that disaster
and bring the cluster back to the previous state.
Well, fun stuff coming up.
So let's get started.

--- OS Upgrades ---

1
In this lecture,
2
we will discuss about scenarios
3
where you might have to take down nodes as part
4
of your cluster, say for maintenance purposes,
5
like upgrading a base software
6
or applying patches like security patches, et cetera,
7
on your cluster.
8
In this lecture, we will see the options available
9
to handle such cases.
10
So you have a cluster with a few nodes
11
and pods serving applications.
12
What happens when one of these nodes go down?
13
Of course, the pods on them are not accessible.
14
Now, depending upon how you deploy those pods,
15
your users may be impacted.
16
For example, since you have multiple replicas
17
of the blue pod, the users accessing the blue application
18
are not impacted as they're being served
19
through the other blue pod that's online.
20
However, users accessing the green pod are impacted as
21
that was the only pod running the green application.
22
Now, what does Kubernetes do in this case?
23
If the node came back online immediately,
24
then the cube control process starts
25
and the pods come back online.
26
However, if the node was down for more than five minutes,
27
then the pods are terminated from that node.
28
Well, Kubernetes considers them as dead.
29
If the pods were part of a replica set,
30
then they're recreated on other nodes.
31
The time it waits for a pod to come back online is known
32
as the pod eviction timeout
33
and is set on the controller manager
34
with a default value of five minutes.
35
In modern Kubernetes, pod eviction is handled
36
through node taints and pod tolerations.
37
When a node becomes not ready
38
or unreachable, Kubernetes applies no execute taints
39
and pods are evicted after a grace period
40
unless they tolerate those taints.
41
So whenever a node goes offline, the master node waits
42
for up to five minutes before considering the node dead.
43
When the node comes back online
44
after the pod eviction timeout,
45
it comes up blank without any pod scheduled on it.
46
Since the blue pod was part of a replica set,
47
it had a new pod created on another node.
48
However, since the green pod was not part
49
of a replica set, it's just gone.
50
Thus, if you have maintenance tasks
51
to be performed on a node, if you know
52
that the workloads running on the node have other replicas,
53
and if it's okay that they go down for a short period
54
of time, and if you're sure the node will come back online
55
within five minutes, you can make a quick upgrade
56
and reboot.
57
However, you do not for sure know if a node is going
58
to be back online in five minutes.
59
Well, you cannot for sure say it is going to be back at all.
60
So there is a safer way to do it.
61
You can purposefully drain the node of all the workloads so
62
that the workloads are moved to other nodes in the cluster.
63
Well, technically, they're not moved.
64
When you drain a node, the pods are gracefully terminated
65
from the node that they're on and recreated on another.
66
The node is also cordoned or marked as unschedulable,
67
meaning no pods can be scheduled on this node
68
until you specifically remove the restriction.
69
Now that the pods are safe on the other nodes,
70
you can reboot the first node.
71
When it comes back online, it is still unschedulable.
72
You then need to uncoordinated so
73
that the pods can be scheduled on it again.
74
Now remember, the pods that were moved
75
to the other nodes don't automatically fall back.
76
If any of those pods were deleted
77
or if new pods were created in the cluster,
78
then they would be created on this node.
79
Apart from drain and uncordon,
80
there is also another command called cordon.
81
Cordon simply marks a node unschedulable.
82
Unlike drain, it does not terminate
83
or move the pods on an existing node.
84
It simply makes sure
85
that new pods are not scheduled on that node.
86
Well, the set for this lecture.
87
Head over to the practice test
88
and practice training, coordinating
89
and then coordinating a note.
90
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Lab - OS Upgrades ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Kubernetes Releases ---

In this lecture we will see how Kubernetes manages software releases.
So what do we know about API versions in Kubernetes so far?
We know that when we install a Kubernetes cluster, we install a specific version of Kubernetes.
We can see that when we run the kubectl get nodes command.
In this case it's version 1.33.0.
Now let's take a closer look at that version number.
The Kubernetes release versions consists of three parts.
The first is the major version, followed by the minor version and then the patch version.
Now, while minor versions are released every few months with new features and functionalities, patches
are released more often with critical bug fixes.
Now, just like many other popular applications out there, Kubernetes follows a standard software release
versioning procedure.
Every few months it comes out with new features and functionalities through a minor release.
The first major version, version 1.0, was released in July of 2015, and later releases followed through
2016 to 2018, to version 1.20 in 2020 and version 1.33 in April 2025.
Now, apart from these, you will also see Alpha and beta releases.
All the bug fixes and improvements first go into Alpha release.
Tagged Alpha.
In this release, the features are disabled by default and may be buggy.
And then from there they make their way to beta release where the code is well tested.
The new features are enabled by default in this release, and finally they make their way to the main
stable release.
You can find all the releases in the releases page of the Kubernetes um repository or the documentation
page.
You download the Kubernetes dot tar dot js file and extract it to find executables for all the different
components.
The downloaded package, when extracted, has all the control plane components in it, all of them of
the same version.
Now remember that there are other components within the control plane that do not have the same version
numbers.
The etcd cluster and the core DNS servers have their own versions as their separate projects.
The release notes of each release provides information about the supported versions of dependent applications,
like etcd and core DNS.
Check out the links for some references.
So that was a quick overview of the release versions.
In the upcoming lecture, we will discuss how to upgrade from one version to another.

--- Cluster Upgrade Introduction ---

In this lecture we discuss about cluster upgrade process in Kubernetes.
In the previous lecture, we saw how Kubernetes manages its software releases and how different components
have their versions.
We will keep dependency on external components like etcd and DNS aside for now, and focus on the core
control plane components.
Is it mandatory for all of these to have the same version?
No.
The components can be at different release versions, since the kube API server is the primary component
in the control plane, and that is the component that all other components talk to.
None of the other components should ever be at a version higher than the kube API server.
The controller, manager and scheduler can be at one version lower.
So if kube API server was at EKS, controller managers and kube schedulers can be at x minus one and
the kubelet and kube proxy components can be at two versions lower x minus two.
So if kube API server was at 1.1, the controller manager and scheduler could be at 1.1 or 1.9, and
the kubelet and kube proxy could be at 1.8.
None of them could be at a version higher than the cube API server, like 1.11.
Now this is not the case with kube control.
The kube control utility could be at 1.11 a version higher than the API server 1.11 the same version
as the API server, or at 1.9 a version lower than the API server.
Now this permissible skew in versions allows us to carry out live upgrades.
We can upgrade component by component if required.
So when should you upgrade?
Say you were at 1.1 and Kubernetes releases versions 1.11 and 1.12 at any time.
Kubernetes supports only up to the recent three minor versions.
So with 1.12 being the latest release, Kubernetes supports versions 1.12, 1.11, and 1.1.
So when 1.13 is released, only versions 1.13, 1.1 and 1.11 are supported.
Before the release of 1.13 would be a good time to upgrade your cluster to the next release.
So how do we upgrade?
Do we upgrade directly from 1.1 to 1.13?
No.
The recommended approach is to upgrade one minor version at a time.
Version 1.1 to 1.11, then 1.11 to 1.12, and then 1.12 to 1.13.
The upgrade process depends on how your cluster is set up.
For example, if your cluster is a managed Kubernetes cluster deployed on cloud service providers like
Google, for instance, Google Kubernetes Engine lets you upgrade your cluster easily with just a few
clicks.
If you deployed your cluster using tools like Kube ADM, then the tool can help you plan and upgrade
the cluster.
If you deployed your cluster from scratch, then you manually upgrade the different components of the
cluster yourself.
In this lecture we will look at the options by kube adm.
So you have a cluster with master and worker nodes running in production, hosting pods serving users.
The nodes and components are at version 1.1.
When upgrading a cluster involves two major steps.
First, you upgrade your master nodes and then upgrade the worker nodes while the master is being upgraded.
The control plane components such as the API, server, scheduler, and controller managers go down
briefly, the master going down does not mean your worker nodes and applications on the cluster are
impacted.
All workloads hosted on the worker nodes continue to serve users as normal.
Since the master is down, all management functions are down.
You cannot access the cluster using kube control or other Kubernetes API.
You cannot deploy new applications or delete or modify existing ones.
The controller managers don't function either.
If a pod was to fail, a new pod won't be automatically created.
But as long as the nodes and pods are up, your applications should be up and users will not be impacted.
Once the upgrade is complete and the cluster is back up, it should function normally.
We now have the master and the master components at version 1.11, and the worker nodes at version 1.1.
As we saw earlier, this is a supported configuration.
It is now time to upgrade the worker nodes.
There are different strategies available to upgrade the worker nodes.
One is to upgrade all of them at once, but then your pods are down and users are no longer able to
access the applications.
Once the upgrade is complete, the nodes are back up, new pods are scheduled, and users can resume
access.
That's one strategy that requires downtime.
The second strategy is to upgrade one node at a time.
So going back to the state where we have our master upgraded and nodes waiting to be upgraded, we first
upgrade the first node where the workloads move to the second and third node, and users are served
from there.
Once the first node is upgraded and back up, we then update the second node where the workloads move
to the first and third nodes, and finally the third node where the workloads are shared between the
first two.
Until we have all nodes upgraded to a newer version, we then follow the same procedure to upgrade the
nodes from 1.11 to 1.12 and then 1.13.
A third strategy would be to add new nodes to the cluster nodes with newer software version.
This is especially convenient if you're on a cloud environment, where you can easily provision new
nodes and decommission old ones.
Nodes with the newer software version can be added to the cluster.
Move the workload over to the new.
And remove the old node until you finally have all new nodes with the new software version.
Let us now see how it is done.
Say we were to upgrade this cluster from 1.1 to 1.13.
Kubeadm has an upgrade command that helps in upgrading clusters with Kubeadm.
Run the Kubeadm upgrade plan command and it will give you a lot of good information.
The current cluster version.
The Kubeadm tool version, the latest stable version of Kubernetes.
Then it lists all the control plane components and their versions and what version these can be upgraded
to.
It also tells you that after we upgrade the control plane components, you must manually upgrade the
Kubelet versions on each node.
Remember, kube adm does not install or upgrade Cubelets.
Finally, it gives you the command to upgrade the cluster.
Also note that you must upgrade the cube ADM tool itself before you can upgrade the cluster.
The cube ADM tool also follows the same software version as Kubernetes.
So we are at 1.11 and we want to go to 1.13.
But remember we can only go one minor version at a time.
So we first go to 1.1 to first upgrade the cube ADM tool itself to version 1.12, then upgrade the cluster
using the command from the upgrade plan output cube upgrade apply.
It pulls the necessary images and upgrades the cluster components.
Once complete, your control plane components are now at 1.12.
If you run the kube control get nodes command, you will still see the master node at 1.17.
This is because in the output of this command, it is showing the versions of Kubelets on each of these
nodes registered with the API server, and not the version of the API server itself.
So the next step is to upgrade the Kubelets.
Remember, depending on your setup, you may or may not have Kubelets running on your master node.
In this case, the cluster deployed with Kube ADM has Kubelets on the master node, which are used to
run the control plane components as pods on the master nodes.
When we set up a Kubernetes cluster from scratch later during this course, we do not install Kubelet
on the master nodes.
You will not see the master node in the output of this command in that case.
So the next step is to upgrade Kubelet on the master node.
If you have Kubelets on them, run the apt.
Get Kubelet command for this.
Once the package is upgraded, restart the Kubelet service running the kube control get nodes command
now shows that the master has been upgraded to 1.12.
The worker nodes are still at 1.11.
So next the worker nodes let us start one at a time.
We need to first move the workloads from the first worker node to the other nodes.
The kube control drain command lets you safely terminate all the pods from a node and reschedules them
on the other nodes.
It also cordons the node and marks it unschedulable.
That way no new pods are scheduled on it.
Then upgrade the kubectl and kubelet packages on the worker nodes as we did on the master node.
Then, using the kube adm tool upgrade command, update the node configuration for the new Cubelet version.
Then restart the Cubelet service.
The node should now be up with the new software version.
However, when we drain the node, we actually marked it Unschedulable.
So we need to unmark it by running the command kube control on node one.
The node is now Schedulable, but remember that it is not necessary that the pods come right back to
this node.
It is only marked as Schedulable.
Only when the pods are deleted from the other nodes, or when new pods are scheduled.
Do they really come back to this first node?
Well, it will soon come when we take down the second node to perform the same steps to upgrade it.
And finally the third node.
We now have all nodes upgraded.
Well that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice test where you will practice upgrading a live cluster with applications running
on it without taking the applications down.
Good luck.

--- Demo - Cluster upgrade ---

Instructor: In this video, I'm gonna walk you through
a demo of upgrading a Kubernetes cluster
from version 1.28 to version 1.29.
And what we're gonna do
is we're gonna follow the documentation
when it comes to upgrading using kubeadm.
And so if you go to the Kubernetes documentation
and you go under Tasks, under Administer a Cluster,
and then down here under Administration with kubeadm,
select Upgrading a kubeadm cluster.
And this is gonna have all of the instructions necessary
to perform an upgrade on a Kubernetes cluster
using kubeadm, and it'll have separate instructions
for each different upgrade.
So you've got one from version 1.28 to version 1.29,
which is what I'm on now,
which is the latest kind of upgrade,
because version 1.29 is the latest at the moment.
But you can see you could also have 1.27 to 1.28,
1.26 to 1.27, 1.25 to 1.26,
and 1.24 to 1.25.
So just select whichever upgrade path you're performing
and just follow those instructions
and you'll see that it's gonna be pretty much identical
regardless of what versions you're upgrading from
and upgrading to.
All right, so let's go ahead and get started.
So I'm gonna scroll down
and you can see that there's an important note
which is "Changing the package repository."
And so if you guys aren't up to date as to what happened,
the old package repositories
for all of the different Kubernetes tools and components
was stored at app.kubernetes.io
and yum.kubernetes.io.
And so those have been deprecated.
So moving forward, we want to use
the pkgs.k8s.io repositories to actually, you know,
download the latest versions of like kubectl,
kubeadm, and all of the different tools.
So we're gonna have to, you know, at the early stages
of performing the upgrade, we're gonna have to make sure
that we're utilizing the newer repositories
and not the older ones.
And I'll show you guys
how we can actually go ahead and do that.
And so what we're gonna do
is we're gonna click on this link right here,
and this is gonna give us the instructions
on how to actually use and set up
the new package repositories.
And it's actually pretty straightforward.
So the first thing that we have to do
is we have to make sure we know
what our, you know, distribution is
'cause the commands are gonna be a little bit different.
So if I go to my cluster right here,
and just to show you guys, I have a two node cluster.
So if I do kubectl get node,
we can see that I've got two nodes here,
one control plane, one worker node.
And keep in mind the steps for upgrading a cluster,
you know, whether it's, you know, two nodes, three nodes,
five nodes, it's all going to be identical.
But if I want to see what, what distribution
my servers are using,
I can do a cat /etc/*release*,
and this is gonna tell us what distribution we're using.
And we can see here we're using Ubuntu 20.04.6.
So this is using Debian,
and so we're gonna follow the instructions
for that on this specific page.
All right, so I'm gonna scroll down here
and it's gonna show the instructions
for Debian, Ubuntu operating systems.
And so here we replace the app repository definition
so that it points to the new one.
And so all we have to do is just copy this command.
And what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna just copy this
and paste this into Notepad
or some text editor of my choice, and we're gonna select,
or we're gonna have to update one thing,
which is the specific minor version that we want.
So this example uses the new package repository,
which is what we want,
but there's a different package repository
for each minor version.
So there's gonna be one for version 1.28, 1 dot version 29.
You'll even have a one for version 1.27 and 1.26.
So we are going to be upgrading to version 1.29,
so we just have to change this to be nine.
And then there's a second command in here,
which is right here,
"Download the public signing key
"for the Kubernetes package repositories."
So this is, once again, we're gonna copy this.
I'm gonna open up my Notepad and I'm gonna paste it in here.
And once again, we're gonna make sure
that we specify the version that we want to upgrade to,
which is gonna be something in the version 1.29 release.
So now if I just scroll down here,
that should be everything that we do.
And then after we run those two commands,
we can do an apt-get update and we should be all set.
So I'm going to go back to my cluster
and I'm going to paste those two commands in.
All right, and the next thing I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna do this same thing on my worker node.
So I'm gonna SSH to my worker node
and we'll copy those two commands once again.
And keep in mind,
if you have like a 3, 4, 5, 10-node cluster,
you're gonna do this on all of your nodes.
All right, so that's all set.
So now we're gonna go back to the documentation,
and right here it's telling us,
"Determine which version to upgrade to."
So obviously, you know, as I said,
we're gonna be upgrading from version 1.28 to version 1.29,
but what specific version within the 1.29 minor release
do we want to upgrade to?
So first of all, we have to see
what are the available versions
and we're just gonna select the latest version
in the 1.29 train.
So we're gonna copy this, we're gonna do an update,
and then we'll do an apt-cache madison kubeadm.
So that's gonna show us what is the latest version
in version 1.29 for kubeadm.
And that way we can go ahead and download it
and set that up.
So I'll just do this on the control plane node.
So after we update, I'll then run this madison command
and this is gonna show us the available versions.
And we can see all of the different versions,
we've got 1.29.0-1.1, and we want the top one here,
which is gonna be the latest one,
which is 1.29.3-1.1.
So I'm gonna just copy this
and I'm gonna save this in my notes just for reference.
So now if I go back to the documentation,
we're gonna start off by upgrading the control plane nodes.
You always upgrade the control plane
and then you upgrade the worker nodes.
So just pick one of your control plane nodes,
doesn't really matter which one.
And we're gonna follow the following steps right here.
So we're gonna upgrade the kubeadm tool first.
So we're gonna copy this command for upgrading it
and we're gonna copy it and paste it
into this text editor once again.
Reason why I'm doing this,
we have to change a few values here.
So this is what we want to upgrade to,
so right here, if we just change the value here
to be the specific version that we want,
then I can just copy this, go back to my cluster,
and paste this into my control plane node.
So the only thing it's gonna do
is it's going to upgrade the kubeadm tool.
So to be able to upgrade to version 1.29,
we have to actually upgrade kubeadm first,
so that kubeadm can then upgrade the cluster
to version 1.29.
All right, so that's complete.
Let's verify that it actually got upgraded.
So if I do kubeadm version,
it should show that version 1.29.
And we can see version 1, minor version 29,
and we can see GitVersion 1.29.3, perfect.
Now if we go back to the documentation,
the next thing we want to do is run
the sudo kubeadm upgrade plan.
So the plan command is just gonna walk us through
the different versions that we can upgrade our cluster to
and it's gonna make sure that there aren't some sort
of like, compatibility issues.
And it's gonna let us know if there's going
to be some problems if we try to perform an upgrade
to a specific version.
So it's just kind of like a dry run just to make sure
that, you know, everything looks okay
and it's gonna tell us, like,
hey, what are the different components
that kubeadm will upgrade for us automatically,
and what are the different components
that we'll have to manually upgrade afterwards as well?
So I'll copy this.
We're gonna run this once again
on that same control plane node.
So let's take a look at the output
of the upgrade plan command.
So right here we can see
the steps it's kind of going through.
So it's just verifying a few things.
Right here, it's going to let us know
that right now our kubeadm is set to version 1.29.3,
cluster is set to version 1.28.0.
And here it says the components
that have to be upgraded manually
after you upgrade the control plane,
which is gonna be the kubelet process.
And so this first section will show us how to upgrade
to the latest version in the 1.28 minor release,
which is 1.28.8.
So if we wanted to go to 1.28.8,
we would have to upgrade the kubelet manually,
kubeadm never upgrades the kubelet for us,
but the components that will get upgraded
by kubeadm are the following components.
So it can actually upgrade all of those
for us automatically.
And if we want to do that,
we can always do a kubeadm upgrade apply v1.28.8,
but we don't want that, we want to upgrade to 1.29.3,
which is the instructions down here.
And so it's gonna let us know
we have to manually upgrade kubelet, right?
Because kubelet is not running in a pod,
so we have to upgrade it ourselves.
But kubeadm will upgrade all the other components
to version 1.29.3.
All we have to do is just run
the kubeadm upgrade apply v1.29.3 command.
And so if we go back to the documentation, right,
we ran the plan command,
the next thing we have to do
is we have to run that sudo kubeadm upgrade apply command,
which is exactly what we're gonna do.
So I can just copy this,
and just do a sudo, and then paste this,
and it's going to perform the upgrade process for us.
All right, so the upgrade was successful
and it's successfully completed.
Now if I do a kubectl get node,
you're gonna see something interesting.
You're gonna see that it still points to version 1.28.0.
Well, why is that?
I thought we just upgraded,
it says we've successfully upgraded.
Well keep in mind when you do a kubectl get node,
and you see the version column here, this version column,
it pulls the version that your kubelet is running.
So our kubelet, remember,
based off the kubeadm plan command,
it needs to be upgraded manually afterwards,
after kubeadm is run.
So this version is just getting pulled
from whatever version your kubelet is running,
so that's why it still says version 1.28.0.
Once we upgrade kubelet, it'll then point to 1.29.3.
But let's go back to the documentation
and let's go ahead and see the next steps.
So after we run the kubeadm upgrade apply,
the next thing that we have to do
is if we do need to upgrade the CNI provider plugin,
you know, maybe after a certain version
you have to upgrade the plugin
so that it can operate seamlessly with the newer version,
then go ahead and upgrade it at this point.
There's no changes that we need to make
to our provider plugin, so we're gonna skip that step.
Then if we're running multiple control plane nodes,
which in our case we only have one,
but if you had more than one, then all you would have to do
is you'd have to run the same commands.
So you would go back to when we updated
the package repository.
So run those two commands,
then you would want to upgrade kubeadm
to that specific version.
And then all you have to do
is instead of running a kubeadm upgrade apply,
you would run a kubeadm upgrade node command
on the control plane node.
Then once you've done that,
we have now successfully upgraded
all of the control plane components
on the control plane nodes, or the master nodes.
The next thing we have to do is we have to upgrade
the kubelet processes on the control plane nodes.
So anytime you're messing with the kubelet process,
we want to make sure we drain the nodes of all of the pods.
And yes, we have to drain the nodes
on the control plane nodes as well
because they do have pods running on them
like the, you know, the core DNS pods
and some of the other control plane components
which are run as pods.
So we do want to make sure we drain them
and move them to some of the other control plane components.
So all we have to do is do a kubectl drain,
the name of the node, and then --ignore-daemonsets.
So I can just copy this,
paste that in,
and just change the name of the node,
which is going to be controlplane
as per the output of kubectl get node,
which we got here, the control plane node
is just called controlplane.
So that's been drained.
And then what we'll do is we will upgrade
the kubelet process now.
So to upgrade kubelet, I'm gonna copy this command,
and keep in mind the command they gave us here
will upgrade kubelet as well as kubectl.
So we'll copy that
and I'm gonna paste it below here.
And we're gonna copy the version,
that specific version,
and change these two fields
so that we can upgrade kubeadm,
and kubectl to that specific version.
And then we'll go ahead and paste it in
and then restart the kubelet process.
So I'll copy this,
now we can go ahead and restart the kubelet process.
So now if I do a kubectl get node,
we can see that the control plane node got upgraded
to version 1.29.3.
We can see that scheduling is still disabled
because we drained the node.
So let's go ahead and uncordon the node.
And we can do that by running kubectl uncordon,
and the name of the node.
So I'll say kubectl uncordon controlplane.
Now if I do a get node,
we should see we no longer have the scheduling disabled
next to our control plane node.
Now if you have more than one control plane node,
you would just do the same process
on all the other control plane nodes.
So you would run this command, well first of all,
you would drain the specific control plane node
that you're working on at the moment,
upgrade kubelet and kubectl,
and then after you upgrade it,
do a restart of the kubelet process.
And then you've upgraded the next control plane node.
And you'll just do that one by one
until you've got all of them upgraded.
And then once that's done,
if we go back to the documentation,
we can see that we can now move on
to upgrading worker nodes.
And so there's gonna be instructions
for both types of machines, whether it's a Linux
or a Windows machine.
So I'll open up the Linux one
'cause that was what we're using,
and we could take a look at the instructions.
And so you'll see here you get that same message
about changing package repository,
but we already did that for our worker node
so we don't need to do that again.
And just like we did with the control plane node,
we're gonna have to upgrade kubeadm on our worker node.
So we already have the command
that we need in our text editor.
So that's gonna be the kubeadm one right here.
So we'll copy this
and I'll go to my node01, paste that in.
And then once that's done,
if we take a look at the documentation,
we could run a sudo kubeadm upgrade node.
So we don't do an apply, we do an upgrade node.
All right, so that's done.
And then if we go down here,
it's gonna be very similar to the control plane node.
We have to drain the node of, you know, all of its pods,
and then we have to upgrade the kubelet process.
So let's go ahead and drain that node.
And obviously I have to go to the control plane node
to actually run the command to drain it.
So I'll do kubectl drain node01,
and I forgot the --ignore-daemonsets.
And then after we do that,
we're gonna upgrade kubelet and kubectl
if you do have kubectl on your node machine.
Keep in mind, you don't technically need
to have that on there, but if you do,
go ahead and upgrade that as well.
And once again, we have the command for that,
that's why I saved it in the text editor.
We'll go back to node01.
So after upgrading the kubelet process,
we're gonna have to then restart it.
So I'll copy these two commands.
And then the last thing that we have to do
is we have to uncordon the node
so that we can deploy pods on it again.
So I'll do kubectl uncordon node01.
And this node has been officially upgraded,
so if I do a kubectl get node,
we can see that they're both running version 1.29.3.
Now you're obviously gonna have more than one worker node,
so after you've finished upgrading your first worker node,
you just follow these instructions again
on the next worker node.
So you're going to do the same thing.
You're going to upgrade the kubeadm tool.
You're gonna run the sudo kubeadm upgrade node,
then you'll drain the node
before you update the kubelet process.
You'll then update the kubelet process,
restart kubelet, and then uncordon the node.
And you'll just do that on all your working nodes
one by one until your entire cluster has been upgraded.
And so that's going to wrap up this demo.
I just walked you guys through
how to upgrade a Kubernetes cluster using the kubeadm tool.

--- Lab - Cluster Upgrade ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Backup and Restore Methods ---

In this lecture we look at the various backup and restore methodologies.
Let's start by looking at what you should consider backing up in a Kubernetes cluster.
So far in this course, we have deployed a number of different applications on our Kubernetes cluster
using deployment pods and service definition files.
We know that the etcd cluster is where all cluster related information is stored.
And if your applications are configured with persistent storage, then that is another candidate for
backups.
With respect to resources that we created in the cluster, at times we use the imperative way of creating
an object by executing a command, such as while creating a namespace or a secret or configmap, or
at times for exposing applications.
And at times we used the declarative approach by first creating a definition file and then running the
kube control apply command on that file.
This is the preferred approach if you want to save your configuration, because now you have all the
objects required for a single application in the form of object definition files in a single folder.
This can easily be reused at a later time or shared with others.
Of course, you must have a copy of these files saved at all times.
A good practice is to store these on source code repositories.
That way it can be maintained by a team.
The source code repository should be configured with the right backup solutions with managed or public
source code repositories like GitHub.
You don't have to worry about this.
With that, even when you lose your entire cluster, you can redeploy your application on the cluster
by simply applying these configuration files on them.
While the declarative approach is the preferred approach, it is not necessary that all of your team
members stick to those standards.
What if someone created an object the imperative way without documenting that information anywhere?
So a better approach to backing up resource configuration is to query the cube API server, query the
cube API server using the cube control, or by accessing the API server directly, and save all resource
configurations for all objects created on the cluster as a copy.
For example, one of the commands that can be used in a backup script is to get all pods and deployments
and services in all namespaces using the kube control utilities.
Get all command and extract the output in YAML format, then save that file.
And that's just for a few resource group.
There are many other resource groups that must be considered.
Of course you don't have to develop that solutions yourself.
There are tools like Arc or now called Valero by Heptio that can do this for you.
It can help in taking backups of your Kubernetes cluster using the Kubernetes API.
Let us now move on to etcd.
The etcd cluster stores information about the state of our cluster.
So information about the cluster itself, the nodes and every other resources created within the cluster
are stored here.
So instead of backing up resource as before, you may choose to backup the etcd server itself.
As we have seen, the etcd cluster is hosted on the master nodes.
While configuring etcd, we specified a location where all the data would be stored.
The data directory that is, the directory that can be configured to be backed up by your backup tool.
Etcd also comes with a built in snapshot solution.
You can take a snapshot of the etcd database by using the etcd control utilities.
Snapshot save command.
Give the snapshot a name.
Snapshot A snapshot file is created by the name in the current directory.
If you want it to be created in another location, specify the full path.
You can view the status of the backup using the snapshot status command.
To restore the cluster from this backup at a later point in time.
First stop the kube API server service, as the restore process will require you to restart the etcd
cluster, and the API server depends on it.
Then run the etcd controls snapshot restore command with the path set to the path of the backup file,
which is the snapshot db file.
When etcd restores from a backup, it initializes a new cluster configuration and configures the members
of etcd as new members to a new cluster.
This is to prevent a new member from accidentally joining an existing cluster on running this command.
A new data directory is created in this example at location var lib etcd from backup.
We then configure the etcd configuration file to use the new data directory.
Then reload the service daemon and restart etcd service.
Finally, start the kube API server service.
Your cluster should now be back in the original state.
A quick note before I let you go with all the etcd commands, remember to specify the certificate files
for authentication.
Specify the endpoint to the etcd cluster and the certificate, the server certificate and the key.
So we have seen two options a backup using etcd and backup by querying the kube API server.
Now both of these have their pros and cons.
Well if you're using a managed Kubernetes environment, then at times you may not even have access to
the etcd cluster.
In that case, backup by querying the kube API server is probably the better way.
Well, that's it for this demo.
Head over to the practice test and practice backing up etcd in a cluster and then restoring from backups.

--- Working with ETCDCTL and ETCDUTL ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Backup and Restore Methods ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Certification Exam Tip! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- References ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

