--- Security - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello and welcome to this section
on security in Kubernetes.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth,
and we are going through
the certified Kubernetes Administrators Course.
In this section of the course, we will start with
understanding the Kubernetes security primitives.
How does someone gain access to the Kubernetes cluster?
And how are their actions controlled, et cetera,
at a high level?
We then start with
the various authentication mechanisms available.
We will look at the default settings in the cluster
and we practice
viewing configurations of an existing cluster.
We discuss about TLS certificates
and how various components within the cluster
are secured using TLS certificates.
If you are a Kubernetes administrator
and you set up a cluster on your own
you are bound to face challenges related to certificates,
which is why we discuss these from ground up,
from the absolute basics.
This is one of the sections that I spent a lot of time on.
I wanted to simplify
some of the core concepts around certificates,
which is why I've added a number of prerequisite lectures
for those who are new to this topic.
We sent out a poll while working on this section
to understand your knowledge about TLS certificates,
and most of you said you were absolute beginners,
which is why we thought it would be good
to explain some of these well.
Especially since there are
so many certificates used within the cluster
between various components
and it can be quite confusing for a beginner.
These lectures
and the practice tests associated with them
should help bridge that gap.
But you might have to be a bit patient with me on this.
Our goal is to enable you to tackle
any security related or certificate related issues
by the end of this section.
These prerequisite lectures may not be for everyone,
so depending on your level of expertise with certificates,
feel free to skip some of these lectures as required.
We then move on to authorization,
where we look at the various authorization mechanisms
and we focus specifically on role-based access controls.
We then discussed how to secure images in your environment,
followed by security contacts,
and finally, network policies.
So a lot of lectures and practice tests coming up.
Take it easy, and I hope you enjoy it.

--- Kubernetes Security Primitives ---

In this lecture we look at the security parameters in Kubernetes.
Kubernetes being the go to platform for hosting production grid applications.
Security is of prime concern.
In this lecture we look at the various security primitives in Kubernetes.
At a high level, before diving deeper into those in the upcoming lectures, let's begin with the hosts
that formed the cluster itself.
Of course, all access to these hosts must be secured root access disabled, password based authentication
disabled, and only SSH key based authentication to be made available.
And of course, any other measures you need to take to secure your physical or virtual infrastructure
that hosts Kubernetes.
Of course, if that is compromised, everything is compromised.
Our focus in this lecture is more on Kubernetes related security.
What are the risks and what measures do you need to take to secure the cluster?
As we have seen already, the kube API server is at the center of all operations within Kubernetes.
We interact with it through the kube control utility or by accessing the API directly.
And through that you can perform almost any operation on the cluster.
So that's the first line of defense.
Controlling access to the API server itself.
We need to make two types of decisions.
Who can access the cluster and what can they do.
Who can access the API server is defined by the authentication mechanisms.
There are different ways that you can authenticate to the API server certificates, or even a integration
with external authentication providers like Ldap.
Finally, for machines we create service accounts.
We will look at these in more detail in the upcoming lectures once they gain access to the cluster.
What can they do is defined by authorization mechanisms.
Authorization is implemented using role based access controls, where users are associated to groups
with specific permissions.
In addition, there are other authorization modules like the attribute based access Control node, Authorizers,
webhooks, etc. again, we look at these in more detail in the upcoming lectures.
All communication with the cluster between the various components such as the etcd cluster, the kube
controller, manager, scheduler, API server, as well as those running on the worker nodes such as
the Kubelet and kube proxy, is secured using TLS encryption.
We have a section entirely for this, where we discuss and practice how to setup certificates between
the various components.
What about communication between applications within the cluster?
By default, all pods can access all other pods within the cluster.
Now you can restrict access between them using network policies.
We will look at how exactly that is done later in the network policies section.
So that was a high level overview of the various security primitives in Kubernetes.
We will now look at these in much more detail going forward.

--- Authentication ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture on authentication in a Kubernetes cluster.
As we have seen already, the Kubernetes cluster consists of multiple nodes physical or virtual, and
various components that work together.
You have users, like administrators that access the cluster to perform administrative tasks, the developers
that access the cluster to test or deploy applications.
We have end users who access the applications deployed on the cluster, and we have third party applications
accessing the cluster for integration purposes.
Throughout this section, we will discuss how to secure our cluster by securing the communication between
internal components and securing management access to the cluster through authentication and authorization
mechanisms.
In this lecture, our focus is on securing access to the Kubernetes cluster with authentication mechanisms.
So we talked about the different users that may be accessing the cluster.
Security of end users who access the applications deployed on the cluster is managed by the applications
themselves internally.
So we will take them out of our discussion.
Our focus is on users access to the Kubernetes cluster for administrative purposes.
So we are left with two types of users humans, such as the administrators and developers, and robots,
such as other processes or services or applications that require access to the cluster.
Kubernetes does not manage user accounts natively.
It relies on an external source, like a file with user details or certificates, or a third party identity
service like Ldap to manage these users.
And so you cannot create users in a Kubernetes cluster or view the list of users like this.
However, in case of service accounts, Kubernetes can manage them.
You can create and manage service accounts using the Kubernetes API.
We have a section on service accounts exclusively where we discuss and practice more about service accounts.
For this lecture we will focus on users in Kubernetes, all user access is managed by the API server.
Whether you're accessing the cluster through kube control tool or the API directly.
All of these requests go through the kube API server.
The kube API server authenticates the requests before processing it.
So how does the kube API server authenticate?
There are different authentication mechanisms that can be configured.
You can have usernames and tokens in a static token file.
Or you can authenticate using certificates.
And another option is to connect to third party authentication protocols like Ldap, Kerberos, etc..
We will look at some of these next.
Let's start with static password and token files as it is the easiest to understand.
In the CSV file with the user details that we saw, we can optionally have a fourth column with the
group details to assign users to specific groups.
Similarly, instead of a static password file, you can have a static token file.
Here, instead of password, is.
Specify a token.
Pass the token file as an option token auth file to the cube API server.
While authenticating, specify the token as an authorization bearer token.
Peer requests like this.
That's it for this lecture.
Remember that this authentication mechanism that stores usernames, passwords, and tokens in clear
text in a static file is not a recommended approach as it is insecure.
But I thought this was the easiest way to understand the basics of authentication in Kubernetes.
Going forward, we will look at other authentication mechanisms.
I also want to point out that if you were trying this out in a cube ADM setup, you must also consider
volume mounts to pass in the auth file.
Details about this are available in the article that follows, and remember to set up authorization
for the new users.
We will discuss about authorization later in this course.
In the upcoming lectures, we will discuss about certificate based authentication and how the various
components within Kubernetes cluster are secured using certificates.

--- TLS Introduction ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture on TLS certificates in Kubernetes.
Securing the cluster with TLS and troubleshooting TLS related issues can be especially difficult if
you are not familiar with the basics of TLS certificates.
We sent out a poll during the creation of this course about your knowledge on TLS certificates.
Most of you got back to us saying you had no clue about it or were not very comfortable with it, so
we decided to put together a set of lectures that will help you gain enough knowledge to work with certificates
in Kubernetes.
And of course, these lectures will help you otherwise as well.
If you're comfortable with this concept already, feel free to skip the prerequisite lectures and head
straight over to the ones relevant to Kubernetes.
By the end of this section.
You should be an expert when it comes to working with certificates in general as well as with Kubernetes,
you should be able to easily configure and troubleshoot issues related to certificates, and the only
way to do it, as I understand, is to learn and understand how it works in and out.
And that's what we're going to do in this section.
We will start with the basics of certificates.
In general, if you're already comfortable with certificates, certificate authorities and how they
work, feel free to skip this lecture and go over to the next where we discuss this in Kubernetes terms.

--- TLS Basics ---

In this video, we will look at the absolute basics of what TLS certificates are, why you need them,
and how you can configure certificates to secure SSH or web servers.
A certificate is used to guarantee trust between two parties during a transaction.
For example, when a user tries to access a web server, TLS certificates ensure that the communication
between the user and the server is encrypted and the server is who it says it is.
Let's take a look at a scenario without secure connectivity.
If a user were to access his online banking application, the credentials he types in would be sent
in a plain text format.
The hacker sniffing network traffic could easily retrieve the credentials and use it to hack into the
user's bank account.
Well, that's obviously not safe, so you must encrypt the data being transferred using encryption keys.
The data is encrypted using a key, which is basically a set of random numbers and alphabets.
You add the random number to your data, and you encrypt it into a format that cannot be recognized.
The data is then sent to the server.
The hacker sniffing the network gets the data but can't do anything with it.
However, the same is the case with the server receiving the data.
It cannot decrypt the data without the key.
So a copy of the key must also be sent to the server so that the server can decrypt and read the message.
Since the key is also sent over the same network, the attacker can sniff that as well and decrypt the
data with it.
This is known as symmetric encryption.
It is a secure way of encryption, but since it uses the same key to encrypt and decrypt the data,
and since the key has to be exchanged between the sender and the receiver.
There is a risk of a hacker gaining access to the key and decrypting the data.
And that's where asymmetric encryption comes in.
Instead of using a single key to encrypt and decrypt data, asymmetric encryption uses a pair of keys,
a private key, and a public key.
Well, their private and public keys.
But for the sake of this example, we will call it a private key and a public lock.
We will get back to that at the end, but for now, think of it as a key and a lock pair.
A key which is only with me.
So it's private.
A lock that anyone can access.
So it's public.
The trick here is if you encrypt or lock the data with your lock, you can only open it with the associated
key.
So your key must always be secure with you and not be shared with anyone else.
It's private, but the lock is public and may be shared with others, but they can only lock something
with it no matter what is locked using the public lock.
It can only be unlocked by your private key.
Before we go back to our web server example, let's look at an even simpler use case of securing SSH
access to servers using key pairs.
You have a server in your environment that you need access to.
You don't want to use passwords as they are too risky, so you decide to use key pairs.
You generate a public and private key pair.
You can do this by running the ssh keygen command.
It creates two files id underscore RSA is the private key and id underscore RSA dot pub is the public
key.
Well not a public key a public lock.
You then secure your server by locking down all access to it except through a door that is locked using
your public lock.
It's usually done by adding an entry with your public key into the server's SSH authorized underscore
case file.
So you see, the lock is public and anyone can attempt to break through.
But as long as no one gets their hands on your private key, which is safe with you on your laptop,
no one can gain access to the server.
When you try to SSH, you specify the location of your private key in your SSH command.
What if you have other servers in your environment?
How do you secure more than one server with your key pair?
Well, you can create copies of your public log and place them on as many servers as you want.
You can use the same private key to SSH into all of your servers securely.
What if other users need access to your servers?
Well, they can do the same thing.
They can generate their own public and private key pairs.
As the only person who has access to those servers, you can create an additional door for them and
lock it with their public locks.
Copy their public logs to all the servers, and now other users can access the servers using their private
keys.
Let's go back to our web server example.
You see, the problem we had earlier with symmetric encryption was that the key used to encrypt data
had to be sent to the server over the network, along with the encrypted data.
And so there is a risk of the hacker getting the key to decrypt the data.
What if we could somehow get the key to the server safely?
Once the key is safely made available to the server, the server and client can safely continue communication
with each other using symmetric encryption to securely transfer the symmetric key from the client to
the server.
We use asymmetric encryption.
So we generate a public and private key pair on the server.
We're going to refer to the public lock as public key going forward.
Now that you have got the idea, the ssh keygen command was used earlier to create a pair of keys for
ssh purposes.
So the format is a bit different.
Here.
We use the OpenSSL command to generate a private and public key pair.
And that's how they look.
When the user first accesses the web server using https, he gets the public key from the server.
Since the hacker is sniffing all traffic.
Let us assume he two gets a copy of the public key.
We'll see what he can do with it.
The user.
In fact, the user's browser then encrypts the symmetric key using the public key provided by the server.
The symmetric key is now secure.
The user then sends this to the server.
The hacker also gets a copy.
The server uses the private key to decrypt the message and retrieve the symmetric key from it.
However, the hacker does not have the private key to decrypt and retrieve the symmetric key from the
message it received.
The hacker only has the public key with which he can only lock or encrypt a message, and not decrypt
the message.
The symmetric key is now safely available only to the user and the server.
They can now use the symmetric key to encrypt data and send to each other.
The receiver can use the same symmetric key to decrypt data and retrieve information.
The hacker is left with the encrypted messages and public keys with which he can't decrypt any data.
With asymmetric encryption, we have successfully transferred the symmetric keys from the user to the
server and with symmetric encryption, we have secured all future communication between them.
Perfect.
The hacker now looks for new ways to hack into your account.
And so he realizes that the only way he can get your credentials is by getting you to type it into a
form he presents.
So he creates a website that looks exactly like your bank's website.
The design is the same.
The graphics are the same.
The website is a replica of the actual bank's website.
He hosts the website on his own server.
He wants you to think it's secure.
Two so he generates his own set of public and private key pairs and configures them on his web server.
And finally, he somehow manages to tweak your environment or your network to route your requests,
going to your bank's website, to his servers.
When you open up your browser and type the website address in, you see a very familiar page.
The same login page of your bank that you're used to seeing.
So you you go ahead and type in the username and password.
You make sure you type them https in the URL to make sure the communication is secure and encrypted.
Your browser receives a key, you send encrypted symmetric key, and then you send your credentials
encrypted with the key, and the receiver decrypts the credentials with the same symmetric key.
You've been communicating securely in an encrypted manner, but with the hacker's server.
As soon as you send any credentials, you see a dashboard that doesn't look very much like your bank's
dashboard.
What if you could look at the key you received from the server and say, if it is a legitimate key from
the real bank server, when the server sends the key, it does not send the key alone.
It sends a certificate that has the key in it.
If you take a closer look at the certificate, you will see that it is like an actual certificate,
but in a digital format.
It has information about who the certificate is issued to, the public, key of that server, the location
of that server, etc. on the right you see the output of an actual certificate.
Every certificate has a name on it, the person or subject to whom the certificate is issued to.
That is very important as that is the field that helps you validate their identity is this is for a
web server.
This must match what the user types in in the URL on his browser.
If the bank is known by any other names, and if they like their users to access their application with
the other names as well, then all those names should be specified in this certificate under the subject
Alternative Names section.
But you see, anyone can generate a certificate like this.
You could generate one for yourself saying you're Google and that's what the hacker did.
In this case.
He generated a certificate saying he is your bank's website.
So how do you look at a certificate and verify if it is legit?
That is where the most important part of the certificate comes into play.
Who signed and issued the certificate?
If you generated a certificate then you will have to sign it by yourself.
That is known as a self-signed certificate.
Anyone looking at the certificate you generated will immediately know that it is not a certificate,
because you have signed it.
If you looked at the certificate you received from the hacker closely, you would have noticed that
it was a fake certificate that was signed by the hacker himself.
As a matter of fact, your browser does that for you.
All of the web browsers are built in with a certificate validation mechanism, wherein the browser checks
the certificate received from the server and validates it to make sure it is legitimate.
If it identifies it to be a fake certificate, then it actually warns you.
So then how do you create a legitimate certificate for your web servers that the web browsers will trust?
How do you get your certificates signed by someone with authority?
That's where certificate authorities or CAS comes in.
They're well known organizations that can sign and validate your certificates for you.
Some of the popular ones are Symantec, Digicert, Comodo, Globalsign, etc..
The way this works is you generate a certificate, signing request or CSR using the key you generated
earlier and the domain name of your website.
You can do this again using the OpenSSL command.
This generates a Mai-bangkok CSR file, which is the certificate signing request that should be sent
to the CA for signing.
It looks like this.
The certificate authorities verify your details and once it checks out, they sign the certificate and
send it back to you.
You now have a certificate signed by a CA that the browsers trust.
If hacker tried to get his certificate signed the same way, he would fail during the validation phase
and his certificate would be rejected by the CA.
So the website that he is hosting won't have a valid certificate.
The CS used different techniques to make sure that you are the actual owner of that domain.
You now have a certificate signed by CA that the browsers trust.
But how do browsers know that the CA itself was legitimate?
For example, what if the certificate was signed by a fake CA?
In this case, our certificate was signed by Symantec.
How would the browser know Symantec is a valid CA and that the certificate was in fact signed by Symantec,
and not by someone who says they are Symantec.
The CA themselves have a set of public and private key pairs.
The CA's used their private keys to sign the certificates.
The public keys of all the CAS are built in to the browsers.
The browser uses the public key of the CA to validate that the certificate was actually signed by the
CA themselves.
You can actually see them in the settings of your web browser under certificates.
They are under trusted CAS tab.
Now these are public CAS that help us ensure the public websites we visit like our banks, emails,
etc. are legitimate.
However, they don't help you validate sites hosted privately, say within your organization.
For example, for accessing your payroll or internal email applications.
For that, you can host your own private CAS.
Most of these companies listed here have a private offering of their services a CAS server that you
can deploy internally within your company.
You can then have the public key of your internal CA server installed on all your employees browsers,
and establish secure connectivity within your organization.
So let's summarize real quick.
We've seen why you may want to encrypt messages being sent over a network to encrypt messages.
We use asymmetric encryption with a pair of public and private keys.
An admin uses a pair of keys to secure SSH connectivity to the servers.
The server uses a pair of keys to secure Https traffic.
But for this, the server first sends a certificate signing request to a CA.
The CA uses its private key to sign the CSR.
Remember, all users have a copy of the CAS public key.
The signed certificate is then sent back to the server.
The server configures the web application with the signed certificate.
Whenever a user accesses the web application, the server first sends the certificate with its public
key.
The user, or rather the user's browser, reads the certificate and uses the CA's public key to validate
and retrieve the server's public key.
It then generates a symmetric key that wishes to use going forward for all communication.
The symmetric key is encrypted using the server's public key and sent back to the server.
The server uses its private key to decrypt the message and retrieve the symmetric key.
The symmetric key is used for communication going forward, so the administrator generates a key pair
for securing SSH.
The web server generates a key pair for securing the website with Https.
The certificate authority generates its own set of key pair to sign certificates.
The end user, though, only generates a symmetric key.
Once he establishes trust with the website.
He uses his username and password to authenticate to the web server with the server's key pairs.
The client was able to validate that the server is who they say they are, but the server does not for
sure know if the client is who they say they are.
It could be a hacker impersonating a user by somehow gaining access to his credentials.
Note over the network for sure, as we have secured it already with TLS.
Maybe by some other means.
Anyway, so what can the server do to validate that the client is who they say they are?
For this, as part of the initial trust building exercise, the server can request a certificate from
the client, and so the client must generate a pair of keys and a signed certificate from a valid CA.
The client then sends the certificate to the server for it to verify that the client is who they say
they are.
Now you must be thinking you have never generated a client certificate to access a website.
Well, that's because TLS client certificates are not generally implemented on web servers.
Even if they are, it's all implemented under the hood.
So a normal user don't have to generate and manage certificates manually.
So that was the final piece about client certificates.
This whole infrastructure, including the CA, the servers, the people, and the process of generating,
distributing and maintaining digital certificates is known as Public key infrastructure or PKI.
Finally, let me clear up something before you leave.
I've been using the analogy of a key and lock for private and public keys.
If I give you the impression that only the lock or the public key can encrypt data, then please forgive
me as it's not true.
These are in fact two related or paired keys.
You can encrypt data with any one of them and only decrypt data with the other.
You cannot encrypt data with one and decrypt with the same.
So you must be careful what you encrypt your data with.
If you encrypt your data with your private key, then remember anyone with your public key, which could
really be anyone out there, will be able to decrypt and read your message.
Finally, a quick note on naming convention.
Usually certificates with public key are named CRT or PEM extension.
So that's server server PEM for server certificates or client CRT or client PEM for client certificates.
And private keys are usually with extension key or dash key.
For example server key or server key PEM.
So just remember private keys have the word key in them, usually either as an extension or in the name
of the certificate, and one that doesn't have the word key in them is usually a public key or certificate.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Thank you for watching.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- TLS in Kubernetes ---

1
In this lecture,
2
we look at securing your Kubernetes cluster
3
with TLS certificates.
4
In the previous lecture, we saw what public
5
and private keys are,
6
how a server uses public and private keys
7
to secure connectivity.
8
We will call them serving certificates.
9
We saw what a certificate authority is.
10
We learned that the CA has its own set
11
of public and private key pairs that it uses
12
to sign server certificates.
13
We will call them root certificates.
14
We also saw how a server can request a client
15
to verify themselves using client certificates.
16
So three types of certificates:
17
server certificates configured on those servers,
18
root certificate configured on the CA servers,
19
and then client certificates configured on the clients.
20
And a quick note on naming convention before we go forward.
21
You're going to see a lot
22
of certificate files in this lecture,
23
and it could be very confusing.
24
So use this technique to know which one is which.
25
Usually certificates with public keys are named "crt"
26
or "pem" extension, so that's server.crt, or server.pem
27
for server certificates or client.crt,
28
or client.pem for client certificates.
29
And private keys are usually with extension ".key"
30
or with a "-key" in the file names, for example,
31
server.key or server-key.pem.
32
So just remember, private keys have the word "key" in them,
33
usually either as an extension
34
or in the name of the certificate,
35
and one that doesn't have the word "key" in them
36
is usually a public key or certificate.
37
That's how I remember it.
38
We will now see how these concepts
39
relate to a Kubernetes cluster.
40
The Kubernetes cluster consists of a set of master
41
and worker nodes.
42
Of course, all communication between these nodes
43
need to be secure and must be encrypted.
44
All interactions between all services
45
and their clients need to be secure.
46
For example, an administrator interacting
47
with the Kubernetes cluster
48
through the Kube control utility,
49
or while accessing the Kubernetes API directly
50
must establish secure TLS connection.
51
Communication between all the components
52
within the Kubernetes cluster also need to be secured.
53
So the two primary requirements are
54
to have all the various services within the cluster
55
to use server certificates
56
and all clients to use client certificates
57
to verify they are who they say they are.
58
Let's look at the different components
59
within the Kubernetes cluster
60
and identify the various servers and clients
61
and who talks to who.
62
Let's start with the kube-apiserver.
63
As we know already, the API server exposes
64
an ACTPS service that other components
65
as well as external users use
66
to manage the Kubernetes cluster.
67
So it is a server
68
and it requires certificates
69
to secure all communication with its clients.
70
So we generate a certificate and key pair.
71
We call it "apiserver.crt" and "apiserver.key."
72
We will try to stick to this naming convention
73
going forward.
74
Anything with a ".crt" extension is the certificate
75
and ".key" extension is the private key.
76
Also, remember, these certificate names could be different
77
in different Kubernetes setups depending on who
78
and how the cluster was set up.
79
So these names may be different in yours.
80
In this lecture, we will try to use names
81
that help us easily identify the certificate files.
82
Another server in the cluster is the ETCD server.
83
The ETCD server stores all information about the cluster.
84
So it requires a pair of certificate and key for itself.
85
We will call it "etcd-x-server.crt" and "etcd-x-server.key."
86
The other server component in the cluster
87
is on the worker nodes.
88
There are the Kubelet services.
89
They also expose an HTTPS API endpoint
90
that the Kube API server talks to
91
to interact with the worker nodes.
92
Again, that requires a certificate and key pair.
93
We call it "kubelet.crt" and "kubelet.key."
94
Those are really the server components
95
in the Kubernetes cluster.
96
Let's now look at the client components.
97
Who are the clients who access these services?
98
The clients who access the Kube API server are us,
99
the administrators through Kube Control or REST API.
100
The admin user requires a certificate and key pair
101
to authenticate to the Kube API server.
102
We will call it "admin.crt," and "admin.key."
103
The scheduler talks to the Kube API server to look for pods
104
that require scheduling
105
and then get the API server
106
to schedule the pods on the right worker nodes.
107
The scheduler is a client
108
that accesses the Kube API server.
109
As far as the Kube API server is concerned,
110
the scheduler is just another client, like the admin user.
111
So the scheduler needs to validate its identity
112
using a client TLS certificate.
113
So it needs its own pair of certificate and keys.
114
We will call it "scheduler.crt"
115
and "scheduler.key."
116
The Kube Controller Manager is another client
117
that accesses the Kube API server.
118
So it also requires a certificate for authentication
119
to the Kube API server.
120
So we create a certificate pair for it.
121
The last client component is the Kube proxy.
122
The Kube proxy requires a client certificate
123
to authenticate to the Kube API server,
124
and so it requires its own pair of certificate and keys.
125
We will call them "kube-proxy.crt" and "kube-proxy.key."
126
The servers communicate amongst them as well.
127
For example, the Kube API server communicates
128
with the ETCD server.
129
In fact, of all the components, the Kube API server
130
is the only server that talks
131
to the ETCD server.
132
So as far as the ETCD server is concerned,
133
the Kube API server is a client,
134
so it needs to authenticate.
135
The Kube API server can use the same keys
136
that it used earlier for serving its own API service.
137
The apiserver.crt and the apiserver.key files.
138
Or you can generate a new pair of certificates specifically
139
for the Kube API server to authenticate to the ETCD server.
140
The Kube API server also talks to the Kubelet server
141
on each of the individual nodes.
142
That's how it monitors the worker nodes.
143
For this, again, it can use the original certificates
144
or generate nuances specifically for this purpose.
145
So that's too many certificates.
146
Let's try and group them.
147
There are a set of client certificates mostly used
148
by clients to connect to the Kube API server,
149
and there are a set of server side certificates
150
used by the Kube API server, ETCD server,
151
and Kubelet to authenticate their clients.
152
We will now see how to generate these certificates.
153
As we know already, we need a certificate authority
154
to sign all of these certificates.
155
Kubernetes requires you to have
156
at least one certificate authority for your cluster.
157
In fact, you can have more than one.
158
One for all the components in the cluster,
159
and another one specifically for ETCD, in that case,
160
the ETCD server's certificates,
161
and the ETCD server's client certificates,
162
which in this case is the API server client certificate,
163
will be all signed by the ETCD server CA.
164
For now, we will stick to just one CA for our cluster.
165
The CA, as we know, has its own pair
166
of certificates and key.
167
We will call it "ca.crt" and "ca.key."
168
That should sum up all the certificates used in the cluster.

--- TLS in Kubernetes - Certificate Creation ---

In this lecture, we'll look at how to generate the certificates for the cluster to generate certificates.
There are different tools available such as easy RSA, OpenSSL or SSL etc. or many others.
In this lecture we will use OpenSSL tool to generate certificates.
This is where we left off.
We will start with the CA certificates.
First we create a private key using the OpenSSL command OpenSSL RSA dash out CA key.
Then we use the OpenSSL request command along with the key we just created to generate a certificate
signing request.
The certificate signing request is like a certificate with all of your details, but with no signature.
In the certificate signing request, we specify the name of the component the certificate is for in
the common name or CN field.
In this case, since we are creating a certificate for the Kubernetes CA, we name it Kubernetes CA.
Finally, we sign the certificate using the OpenSSL x509 command and by specifying the certificate signing
request we generated in the previous command.
Since this is for the CA itself, it is self-signed by the CA using its own private key that it generated
in the first step going forward.
For all other certificates, we will use the CA key pair to sign them.
The CA now has its private key and root certificate file.
Great.
Let's now look at generating the client certificates.
We start with the admin user.
We follow the same process where we create a private key for the admin user using the OpenSSL command.
We then generate a CSR and that is where we specify the name of the admin user which is kube admin.
A quick note about the name.
It doesn't really have to be kube admin.
It could be anything.
But remember this is the name that kube control client authenticates with.
And when you run the kube control command.
So in the audit logs and elsewhere This is the name that you will see, so provide a relevant name in
this field.
Finally, generate a signed certificate using the OpenSSL zero nine command.
But this time you specify the CA certificate and the CA key.
You're signing your certificate with the CA key pair.
That makes this a valid certificate within your cluster.
The signed certificate is then output to admin file.
That is the certificate that the admin user will use to authenticate to Kubernetes cluster.
If you look at it, this whole process of generating a key and a certificate pair is similar to creating
a user account for a new user, the certificate is the validated user ID and the key is like the password.
It's just that it's much more secure than a simple username and password.
So this is for the admin user.
How do you differentiate this user from any other users?
The user account needs to be identified as an admin user and not just another basic user.
You do that by adding the group details for the user in the certificate.
In this case, a group named System Masters exist on Kubernetes with administrative privileges.
We will discuss about groups later, but for now it's important to know that you must mention this information
in your certificate signing request.
You can do this by adding group details with the OU parameter while generating a certificate signing
request.
Once it's signed, we now have our certificate for the admin user with admin privileges.
We follow the same process to generate client certificates for all other components that access the
kube API server.
The kube scheduler.
Now the kube scheduler is a system component part of the Kubernetes control plane, so its name must
be prefixed with the keyword system.
The same with kube controller manager.
It is again a system component, so its name must be prefixed with the keyword system and finally kube
proxy.
So far we have created CA certificates.
Then all of the client certificates including the admin, user scheduler, controller manager and kube
proxy.
We will follow the same procedure to create the remaining three client certificates for API servers
and Cubelets.
When we create the server certificates for them, so we will set them aside for now.
Now what do you do with these certificates?
Take the admin certificate for instance to manage the cluster.
You can use this certificate instead of a username and password.
In a Rest API call you make to the kube API server.
You specify the key, the certificate, and the CA certificate as options.
That's one simple way.
The other way is to move all of these parameters into a configuration file called kube config.
Within that, specify the API server endpoint, details, the certificates to use, etc. that is what
most of the Kubernetes clients use.
We will look at kube config in depth in one of the upcoming lectures.
Okay, so we're now left with the server side certificates.
But before we proceed, one more thing.
Remember, in the prerequisite lecture, we mentioned that for clients to validate the certificates
sent by the server and vice versa, they all need a copy of the certificate authorities public certificate,
the one that we said is already installed within the user's browsers.
In case of a web application.
Similarly, in Kubernetes, for these various components to verify each other, they all need a copy
of the CA's root certificate.
So whenever you configure a server or a client with certificates, you will need to specify the CA root
certificate as well.
Let's look at the server side certificates now.
Let's start with the etcd server.
We follow the same procedure as before to generate a certificate for etcd.
We will name it etcd server.
Etcd server can be deployed as a cluster across multiple servers as in a high availability environment.
In that case, to secure communication between the different members in the cluster, we must generate
additional peer certificates.
Once the certificates are generated, specify them while starting the etcd server.
There are key and cert file options where you specify the etcd server keys.
There are other options available for specifying the peer certificates.
And finally, as we discussed earlier, it requires the CA root certificate to verify that the clients
connecting to the etcd server are valid.
Let's talk about the kube API server now.
We generate a certificate for the API server like before.
But wait, the API server is the most popular of all components within the cluster.
Everyone talks to the kube API server.
Every operation goes through the kube API server.
Anything moves within the cluster, the API server knows about it.
You need information.
You talk to the API server and so it goes by many names and aliases within the cluster.
Its real name is Kube API server, but some call it Kubernetes because for a lot of people who don't
really know what goes under the hoods of Kubernetes?
The kube API server is Kubernetes.
Others like to call it Kubernetes.
While some refer to it as Kubernetes default SVC and some like to call it by its full name Kubernetes
default svc dot cluster dot local.
Finally, it is also referred to in some places simply by its IP address, the IP address of the host
running the kube API server, or the pod running it.
So all of these names must be present in the certificate generated for the kube API server.
Only then those referring to the cube API server by these names will be able to establish a valid connection.
So we use the same set of commands as earlier to generate a key.
In the certificate signing request you specify the name kube API server.
But how do you specify all the alternate names?
For that you must create an open SSL config file.
Create an OpenSSL conf file and specify the alternate names in the.
Altnames section of the file.
Include all the DNS names the API server goes by as well as the IP address.
Pass this config file as an option while generating the certificate signing request.
Finally, sign the certificate using the CA certificate and key.
You then have the API server certificate.
It is time to look at where we are going to specify these keys.
Remember to consider the API client certificates that are used by the API server while communicating
as a client to the etcd and Kubelet servers.
The location of these certificates are passed in to the kube API server's executable or service configuration
file.
First, the CA file needs to be passed in.
Remember, every component needs the CA certificate to verify its clients.
Then we provide the API server certificates under the TLS cert options.
We then specify the client certificates used by kube API server to connect to the etcd server again
with the CA file, and finally the kube API server client certificates to connect to the Kubelets.
Next comes the Kubelet server.
The Kubelet server is an https API server that runs on each node responsible for managing the node.
That's who the API server talks to to monitor the node, as well as send information regarding what
pods to schedule on this node.
As such, you need a key certificate pair for each node in the cluster.
Now what do you name these certificates?
Are they all going to be named Cubelets?
No, they will be named after their nodes.
Node zero one, node zero two and node zero three.
Once the certificates are created, use them in the kubelet config file.
As always, you specify the root certificate and then provide the Kubelet node certificates.
You must do this for each node in the cluster.
We also talked about a set of client certificates that will be used by the Kubelet to communicate with
the kube API server.
These are used by the Kubelet to authenticate into the kube API server.
They need to be generated as well.
What do you name these certificates?
The API server needs to know which node is authenticating and give it the right set of permissions.
So it requires the nodes to have the right names in the right format.
Since the nodes are system components like the kube scheduler and the controller manager we talked about
earlier, the format starts with the system keyword followed by node and then the node name.
In this case node one to node zero three.
And how would the API server give it the right set of permissions?
Remember we specified a group name for the admin user.
So the admin user gets administrative privileges.
Similarly, the nodes must be added to a group named system nodes.
Once the certificates are generated, they go into the kube config files as we discussed earlier.
Well that's it for this lecture.
In the next lecture we will see how you can view certificate information and how certificates are configured
by the Kube ADM tool.

--- View Certificate Details ---

In this lecture, we see how we can view certificates in an existing cluster.
So you join a new team to help them manage their Kubernetes environment.
You're a new administrator to this team.
You've been told that there are multiple issues related to certificates in the environment.
So you're asked to perform a health check of all the certificates in the entire cluster.
What do you do?
First of all, it's important to know how the cluster was set up.
There are different solutions available for deploying a Kubernetes cluster, and they use different
methods to generate and manage certificates.
If you were to deploy a Kubernetes cluster from scratch, you generate all the certificates by yourself
as we did in the previous lecture.
Or else, if you were to rely on an automated provisioning tool like kube ADM, it takes care of automatically
generating and configuring the cluster for you while you deploy all the components as native services
on the nodes in the hard way.
The kubectl tool deploys these as pods.
So it's important to know where to look at to view the right information.
In this lecture, we're going to look at a cluster provisioned by kube ADM as an example.
In order to perform a health check, start by identifying all the certificates used in the system.
I've created a sample Excel spreadsheet for you.
Check out the resources linked at the end of this lecture to access it.
So the idea is to create a list of certificate files used, their paths, the names configured on them,
the alternate names configured, if any, the organization the certificate account belongs to the issuer
of the certificate and the expiration date on the certificate.
So how do you get these?
Start with certificate files used for this in an environment set up by Kube ADM.
Look for the kube API server definition file under slash Kubernetes manifests folder.
The command used to start the API server has information about all the certificates it uses.
Identify the certificate file used for each purpose and note it down.
Next, take each certificate and look inside it to find more details about that certificate, for example.
We will start with the API server certificate file.
Run the OpenSSL x509 command and provide the certificate file as input to decode the certificate and
view details.
Start with the name on the certificate under the subject section.
In this case it's kube API server.
Then the alternate names.
The kube API server has many, so you must ensure all of them are there, and then check the validity
section of the certificate to identify the expiry date and then the issuer of the certificate.
This should be the CA who issued the certificate.
Kube ADM names the Kubernetes CA as Kubernetes itself.
Follow the same procedure to identify information about all the other certificates.
Things to look for.
Check to make sure you have the right names, the right alternate names.
Make sure the certificates are part of the correct organization, and most importantly, they are issued
by the right issuer and that the certificates are not expired.
The certificate requirements are listed in detail in the Kubernetes documentation page.
Check the references section for the link.
When you run into issues, you want to start looking at logs.
If you set up the cluster from scratch by yourself and the services are configured as native services
in the OS, you want to start looking at the service logs using the operating system's logging functionality.
In case you set up a cluster with kube ADM, then the various components are deployed as pods.
So you can look at the logs using the kube control logs command followed by the pod name.
Sometimes if the core components, such as the Kubernetes API server or the etcd server are down, the
kube control commands won't function.
In that case, you have to go one level down to Docker to fetch the logs.
List all the containers using the crystal PS a command, and then view the logs using crystal or logs
command followed by the container ID.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice test and practice viewing information about the existing cluster.

--- Resource: Download Kubernetes Certificate Health Check Spreadsheet ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - View Certificates ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - View Certification Details ---

Instructor: So in this video we're going to look
at the solution for the lab on viewing certificate details.
So the first question is to identify the certificate file
used for the kube-api server.
So let's look at the manifest files for the kube-api server.
So we know that they are under etc/kubernetes/manifest
and we have the kube-apiserver.
And if you look at this file, we know that
we need to look for the certificate file
used for the kube-api server.
So these are the files to connect to the ETCD Server.
These are the kubelet, have the proxy
and the certificate
for the kube-api server itself are these.
So we have the certificate file here and the key here.
So /etc/kubernetes/pki/apiserver.crt,
pki/apiserver.crt.
So that's this one.
Okay, so identify the certificate file
used to authenticate kube-apiserver
as a client to ETCD Server.
So this is the kube-apiserver configuration.
And kube-apiserver connecting to ETCD Server,
is connecting to ETCD Server as a client.
So these are the relevant files.
So this is the address of the ETCD Server.
And then you have the cafile, the certfile and the key.
Here we're asked to identify the certificate file
used to authenticate the kube-apiserver to ETCD.
So the cert file is this,
so that's /etc/kubernetes/pki/apiserver-etcd-client.crt,
etcd-client.crt.
Looks like it's this one.
Okay, identify the key used to authenticate
the kubeapi-server to the kubelet server.
So these are the files that are relevant to the kubelet.
And you have a certificate file here.
And then the key,
so that's /etc/kubernetes/pki/apiserver-kubetlet-client.
So a apiserver-kubelet-client,
/etc/kubernetes/pki.
And we're asked to identify the key.
So it's not the crt, it's the one that has key at the end.
Okay, so just to summarize here.
These are the files used by the kube-api server itself
to host itself.
So that's under the /etc/kubernetes/pki.
And then you have the apiserver.crt and apiserver.key.
Everything for connecting to the ETCD Server.
The cafile is under etcd.
But then the API server client files
are still under the pki directory.
And then here to the kubelet client files,
they're still under the pki directory.
And so that's what we were concerned about.
So if you look at it, anything to do
with the Kubernetes API server,
they're under the pki directory.
So either the API server certificate and key itself
or the client files, which are used to connect
to either ETCD or kubelet,
they're all under /etc/kubernetes/pki,
under the pki directory.
So think about it that way.
And then now we're asked to identify
the ETCD Server Certificate used to host
the ETCD Server itself.
So for this we're going to look
at the ETCD Server manifest file.
And here we have the certificate file
is under the etcd directory.
And the key is also under the ETCD directory.
And then you have the cafile.
It's also under the etcd directory.
So anything to do with the ETCD Server itself
for its own hosting is under
the etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd directory.
So in this case,
we're asked to identify the ETCD Server Certificate.
So that's this certificate.
So that's /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt,
that's /etc/kubernetes/pki.
There's no etcd here.
/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt.
So that's this one.
Now identify the ETCD Server CA Root ETCD Server
used to serve the ETCD Server.
So here we have the CA file here
which is a trusted-ca-file.
And this is under the /kubernetes/pki/etcd directory.
So as we discussed, in this case,
the ETCD Server has its own CA file, trusted CA Root file
which is under the etcd directory.
And the kube-api server has its own
which is in a different directory.
So just keep that in mind.
So this is under /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt.
So that's at etcd/ca.crt.
It's this one.
Now, what is the common name
configured on the Kube API Server Certificate.
So we know that the Kube API Server Certificate
is this one
and we'll run that through the openssl x509,
filename, -text and -noout.
So that command is gonna give us this information.
And if you look inside here,
you have information about the certificate.
So the issuer is Kubernetes, but the subject,
which is what this certificate is issued to,
is the common name for that is kube-apiserver.
That's kube-apiserver.
So that's the answer to this question.
That's kube-apiserver.
Now, what is the name of the CA
who issued the Kube API Server Certificate?
If you at here you have the issuer
and the name is Kubernetes.
So Kubernetes is the CA
who issued the Kube API Server Certificate.
Now, which of the below alternate names
is not configured on the Kube API Server?
So as we discussed, the Kube API Server has multiple names.
So it could be controlplane, kubernetes,
kubernetes.default, kubernetes.default.svc,
kubernetes.default.svc.cluster.local
and this IP addresses as well.
So kubernetes, yes.
Controlplane, yes.
Kubernetes.default.svc, yes.
Kube-master, no, there is no kube-master.
So in this case, that's the answer to that question.
Now, what is the common name configured
on the ETCD Server Certificate?
So let's look at the ETCD Server Certificate
and that is this one.
And let's run it through the same command
but we're just going to replace it
with the ETCD Server Certificate.
And here we can see the issuer is etcd-ca.
So ETCD has its own CA,
that's what we need to understand from here.
And if you remember, Kubernetes had the CA, kubernetes,
but here you have another CA.
And then the common name configured
on the ETCD Server Certificate.
If you look at this common name
for the ETCD Server is controlplane.
So this is not the control plane, as this,
this is not the Kubernetes control plane.
This is referring to the ETCD control plane, in fact.
So let's select that.
Now, how long from the issue date
is the Kube API Server Certificate valid for?
So we have the output for the API server here.
And if you look at this,
if you look at the validity, it's not valid before.
So this is basically the starting.
So this is April 17th, 2022
and is valid for until April 17th, 2023.
So that's one year.
Okay.
How long from the issue date
is the Root CA Certificate valid for?
So the Root CA Certificate, as we know, is here.
So let's run the same command.
And if you look at the validity,
it's April 17th, 2022
to April 14th, 2032.
So that's approximately, that's 10 years.
So that's like that.
Okay, so going through a change window.
So there are some changes happening.
Okay, so kubectl suddenly stops responding to your commands
after a change window.
So check it out.
Someone recently modified this particular file,
so you're asked to investigate and fix the issue.
And once you fix the issue,
wait for some time for kubectl to respond.
Okay.
So let's see that.
Let's do a kubectl get something, get pods
and let's see what's happening.
So this might take some time.
Okay, so it says the connection to the server was refused,
did you specify the right host or port?
So apparently none of the Kubernetes commands are working.
So let's see, let's first,
so if this happens, this means that the kubectl utility
is not able to communicate with the Kube API Server.
So we need to look at the status of the Kube API Server.
But you can't do that with the kubectl command
because the kubectl command cannot communicate
with the Kube API Server.
So we have to then use Docker
because we know that these pods
are in fact running as containers
on the host, Docker containers.
So let's do a docker ps,
then grep for kube-apiserver.
And we see that we have the Kube API Server
and we have a Kube API Server that exited
like 27 seconds ago.
And then we have a new Kube API Server.
So let's quickly check the logs of that container
and we see that it has this error,
error while dialing tcp 127.0.0.1:2379.
Now we know that 2379 is a port of ETCD
but this is the ETCD Server port.
So basically the Kube API Server
is not able to connect to the ETCD Server.
So let's look at the ETCD Server then.
So let's do a docker ps -a.
So let's look for ETCD
and we have ETCD part here.
And if you look at this,
let's see if we can find,
okay, so right here it says etcdmain
cannot find /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server-certificate.crt
is not found.
So let's see where that is.
So that's /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd.
If you look at this directory, there is server.crt
but there is no server-certificate.crt.
So that's the error.
So something is changed in the ETCD server.
So let's look at the ETCD
manifest files.
So that's /etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yml.
And let's see where we have this configured
which is server-certificate.crt.
So someone's put in the wrong path to the certificate here.
So that's the crt file, and that's the issue.
So we have to fix this.
So the crt file for ETCD, as we know we have seen earlier
is the server.crt file.
It's not server-certificate, it's just server.crt.
So we're going to modify this.
So let's go in, edit this file
and let's remove this case.
Let's save that.
And let's now give it some time start up.
So let's look at
etcd again.
See that it's powered up now a new pod,
our new container.
So let's check the logs of that container
and see that, I see that it's now,
that error is not no longer there.
So let's see if...
It's still not working.
So we might have to give it some time
for the Kube API Server to pick this up.
So let's check the Kube API Server.
Let's check the logs.
So this is the previous instance of the Kube API server.
So we just have to wait for a new instance to come up.
Okay.
Looks like there's a new container.
Let's check the logs of that container.
So let's do a docker logs.
And we see,
don't see errors anymore so let's check.
Yep.
Okay, so now we have the kubectl utility back
and the node is now ready.
Okay, let's give that a shot.
Okay, so that's success.
After a few hours.
I believe someone's gonna break something again.
So we have the kube-api server and it stopped again.
Check it out.
Let's check that out.
Yep, it looks like that's stopped again.
Now inspect the kube-api server logs
and identify the root cause and fix the issue.
So let's look at the logs again.
Okay, so this time it says,
unable to connect to the server, TLS handshake timeout.
So it looks like there's some issue
with the TLS certificates.
So let's check that again.
So let's check the kube-api server again.
So docker ps -a, grep kube-apiserver
and you see that it exited.
So let's do docker logs.
And here it says, authentication handshake failed,
certificate signed by unknown authority.
Let's see if there's something else.
Okay, so that's the error.
And also here you have some information that,
it's failed to connect to 127.0.0.1:2379.
So we know that 2379 is ETCD Server.
So it's got something to do with the ETCD Server.
So basically the kube-api server
is unable to connect to the ETCD Server
because of handshake issue.
So it's because the certificate
is signed unknown authorities.
So let's check that out.
Let's look at,
let's first look at the ETCD pod,
and see if that has any issues.
So if you look at this, the ETCD container
has been running for four minutes.
So let's check the logs of that container.
And we see that it started,
well, there were no errors,
but then started getting this rejected connection from,
and this is a remote and it's a bad certificate.
So it's rejecting connections from somewhere.
And we assume that that's the kube-api server
trying to connect to that ETCD server.
And that's because it is sending in a bad certificate.
Okay, so let's try to look at the certificates configured
on the API server.
So that's under manifest,
kube-api server.
We're basically focusing on the ETCD itself.
So let's just look at those alone.
Okay, so this is what we need to look at.
So here we have the etcd-cafile
and that's set to /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt
and then you have the etcd-certfile.
This is the client certificate for API server.
So that's apiserver-etcd-client.crt set correctly.
This is the key file.
Again, this is the a API server, at etcd-client.key file
which is right.
And the etcd-servers is set to the correct URL as well.
So as we discussed earlier,
the Kubernetes has its own CA file, which is this.
And ETCD has its own CA file, which is not this.
So ETCD has a CA file,
which is under /kubernetes/pki/etcd
and then the CA file that's here.
So this is the CA file for ETCD.
So here you should be specifying that
and not the the Kubernetes CA file.
So that seems to be the problem.
So let's go in and change.
Okay, you can just add this here, like this.
And let's check the status of Kube API server.
Okay, it started one eight seconds ago.
Let's check the logs.
And we see, we don't see those errors anymore.
These are all informational.
Okay, let's check if
the API server is back up.
Yep, it seems to be back up.
So that was a problem.
So we looked at the logs on the Kube API Server,
we looked at the logs on the ETCD Server
and the containers for both.
And we realized that it was a certificate issue somewhere.
So we went through and looked at the certificate files
configured on each of them
and finally figured out that it was this.
So that was a bit tricky
but that's just something we'll have to keep in mind.
Okay.
Well, that's all for this lab.

--- Certificates API ---

1
In this lecture,
2
we look at how to manage certificates
3
and what the certificate API is in Kubernetes.
4
So what have we done so far?
5
I, as an administrator of the cluster,
6
in the process of setting up the whole cluster,
7
have set up a CA server and bunch of certificates
8
for various components.
9
We then started the services using the right certificates
10
and is all up and working.
11
I'm the only administrator and user of the cluster
12
and I have my own admin certificate and key.
13
A new admin comes into my team.
14
She needs access to the cluster.
15
We need to get her a pair of certificate
16
and key pair for her to access the cluster.
17
She creates her own private key,
18
generates a certificate signing request and sends it to me.
19
Since I'm the only admin,
20
I then take the certificate signing request to my CA server,
21
gets it signed by the CA server
22
using the CA server's private key and route certificate,
23
thereby generating a certificate
24
and then sends the certificate back to her.
25
She now has her own valid pair of certificate and key
26
that she can use to access the cluster.
27
The certificates have a validity period.
28
It ends after a period of time.
29
Every time it expires, we follow the same process
30
of generating a new CSR and getting it signed by the CA.
31
So we keep rotating the certificate files.
32
So we keep talking about the CA server.
33
What is the CA server
34
and where is it located in the Kubernetes setup?
35
The CA is really just the pair of key
36
and certificate files we have generated.
37
Whoever gains access to these pair of files
38
can sign any certificate for the Kubernetes environment.
39
They can create as many users as they want
40
with whatever privileges they want.
41
So these files need to be protected
42
and stored in a safe environment.
43
Say we place them on a server that is fully secure,
44
now that server becomes your CA server.
45
The certificate key file is safely stored in that server
46
and only on that server.
47
Every time you want to sign a certificate,
48
you can only do it by logging into that server.
49
As of now, we have the certificates placed
50
on the Kubernetes master node itself.
51
So the master node is also RCA server.
52
The Kubeadm tool does the same thing.
53
It creates a CA pair of files
54
and stores that on the master node itself.
55
So far we have been signing requests manually,
56
but as in when the users increase and your team grows,
57
you need a better automated way
58
to manage the certificates signing requests,
59
as well as to rotate certificates when they expire.
60
Kubernetes has a built-in certificates API
61
that can do this for you.
62
With the certificates API,
63
you now send a certificate signing request
64
directly to Kubernetes through an API call.
65
This time when the administrator receives
66
a certificate signing request,
67
instead of logging onto the master node
68
and signing the certificate by himself,
69
he creates a Kubernetes API object called
70
CertificateSigningRequest.
71
Once the object is created,
72
all CertificateSigningRequest
73
can be seen by administrators of the cluster.
74
The request can be reviewed and approved easily
75
using Kube control commands.
76
This certificate can then be extracted
77
and shared with the user.
78
Let's see how it is done.
79
A user first creates a key,
80
then generates a certificate signing request
81
using the key with her name on it,
82
then sends the request to the administrator.
83
The administrator takes a key
84
and creates a CertificateSigningRequest object.
85
The CertificateSigningRequest object
86
is created like any other Kubernetes object
87
using a manifest file with the usual fields.
88
The kind is CertificateSigningRequest
89
under the spec section.
90
In the spec section, usages defines
91
how the certificate will be used.
92
Expiration seconds controls certificate validity
93
signer name tells Kubernetes who is allowed
94
to sign the certificate signing request
95
and what kind of certificate is being requested.
96
The request field is where you specify
97
the certificate signing request sent by the user,
98
but you don't specify it as plain text.
99
Instead, it must be encoded using the base 64 command.
100
Then move the encoded text into the request field
101
and then submit the request.
102
Once the object is created,
103
all CertificateSigningRequests can be seen
104
by administrators by running the Kube control,
105
get csr command.
106
Identify the new request and approve the request
107
by running the Kube control certificate approved command,
108
Kubernetes signs the certificate using the CA key pairs
109
and generates a certificate for the user.
110
This certificate can then be extracted
111
and shared with the user.
112
View the certificate by viewing it in a YAML format.
113
The generated certificate is part of the output,
114
but as before, it is in a base 64 and coded format.
115
To decode it, take the text
116
and use the base 64 utilities decode option.
117
This gives the certificate in a plain text format.
118
This can then be shared with the end user.
119
Now that we have seen how it works,
120
let's see who does all of this for us.
121
If you look at the Kubernetes control plane,
122
you see the kube-apiserver, the scheduler,
123
the controller manager, etcd server, et cetera.
124
Which of these components is actually responsible
125
for all the certificate related operations?
126
All the certificate related operations
127
are carried out by the controller manager.
128
If you look closely at the controller manager,
129
you will see that it has controllers in it
130
called as CSR-Approving, CSR-Signing, et cetera,
131
that are responsible for carrying out these specific tasks.
132
We know that if anyone has to sign certificates,
133
they need the CA server's route certificate and private key.
134
The Controller Manager service configuration has two options
135
where you can specify these.
136
Well, that's it for this lecture.
137
Head over to the practice test
138
and play around with the certificate's API
139
and we'll see you in the next lecture.

--- Lab - Certificates API ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Certificates API ---

-: Okay, so let's go through the lab on certificates.
So a new member, Akshay joined our team.
He requires access to our cluster.
The certificate signing request is at the route location.
So,
let's see where we are.
So we are in, we are in route.
So we have Akshay dot CSR, and Akshay dot key.
Let's look at, what's there in those files.
So this is the CSR, so certificate signing request.
And then here is,
that's basically the, the key.
Okay, so that's good.
So create a certificate signing request object
with the name Akshay
with the contents of the Akshay dot CSR file.
So for this we have to create,
there is no
imperative command.
So let's go here.
And in the CSR
or the certificate signing request page on, on Kubernetes.
So we have Kubernetes documentation pages.
We have
this section here
to create certificate signing requests.
So we're gonna get this, because we want to.
Let's, let's skip the first and last lines
because we want to edit this request
and maybe even the expiration dates.
Because that's not required for now.
So I'm going to create a file called Akshay dot
yaml.
I'm gonna paste that.
And what we need to do is
paste in the CSR file here.
So basically, the contents of, actually dot CSR,
needs to go here.
But as you can see, this is in a different format.
So this is basically, base64 encoded format.
So first we need to get the basic C4
encoded format of this and then change this
and change the name now's maybe get rid of this.
Okay, so
let's do that.
So let's, yeah, Cat, actually that's CSR.
And then we paste it through base64.
And then we get this.
Now this command, base64,
by default
prints it in this format with, with new lines.
But that won't work very well here
because it needs to be a single line.
So what we're going to do is
touch W
zero
and that basically prints it in, in a single line.
And then we're just gonna copy this
and just make sure you copied right to here.
Okay.
Then we go in here.
Go.
Request.
Let's paste that.
Okay.
And then we gotta get rid of this line.
That's not required.
And then we have the metadata here.
And this is
Akshay.
Well also,
So the signer name.
So the signer name should be recorded as an
audio kube-apiserver client.
So it's already kube-apiserver client.
Okay, so.
This is good.
Leave that and let's create.
Okay, so it looks like there is
an error.
This is illegal.
Base64 data at input.
Right? Hundreds.
Let's take a look.
If you look here, I think we, we missed
an equal sign.
Let's just do that again.
Yeah, copy that.
And we have a request.
Okay, that seems to be good.
Just gonna align that directly.
And let's save this and let's create that file again.
Okay, so that's done.
Get CSR.
Okay, so the CSR request named Akshay is created
and
you can see it's in a pending state.
So let's give this a shot.
Okay, so that's successful.
And what is the condition of the newly created certificate
signing request object.
So it's in a pending state.
Select pending.
And now we've got to approve the CSR request.
So let's do a kube KUTTL.
Certificate
approve.
and then the name.
That's approved
and we see that it's
indeed, approved.
Now how many CSR requests are available on the cluster?
So if you look at this, we have two requests.
Okay?
So, during a routine check,
you realize that there is a new CSR request.
What is the name of this request?
So let's look at that again.
So we see that there is indeed a new request that's come in.
It's called Agent Smith.
Okay, so it's called Agent Smith.
Now, you're not aware of the request coming in.
Now what groups is the CSR requesting access to?
So you see that there's a request
and now, let's see
what groups it's requesting access to.
So we could do a kube KUTTL with CSR Agent
Smith.
And then do,
view it in, in the YAML format.
That way we get more details.
And here you see under the spec section, you have groups.
And it's requesting for system masters,
system authenticated.
So, system masters
is one that it is requesting
access to.
So the select system masters.
And that doesn't look very right,
because we don't want to give system masters,
which is
the group which is an access
to a group that has all, that has a lot of powers.
So we don't want to do that.
So we want to reject that.
So let's do a kube KUTTL certificate,
deny
Agent
Smith.
Okay.
Next.
Now let's get rid of it.
Delete the new CSR object.
So let's see the status now.
And we see that it's denied.
And we want to now get rid of it.
So we'll do a peddle
delete
CSR
Agent Smith.
Okay, so that should now be gone.
Let's check it again.
Yep. And that's indeed gone.
Okay, so that's the end of this lab.

--- KubeConfig ---

In this lecture we look at kube configs in Kubernetes.
So far we have seen how to generate a certificate for a user.
We have seen how a client uses the certificate file and key to query the Kubernetes Rest API for a list
of pods using curl.
In this case, my cluster is called Minikube playground.
So send a curl request to the address of the kube API server while passing in the pair of files, along
with the certificate as options.
This is then validated by the API server to authenticate the user.
Now how do you do that while using the kube control command?
You can specify the same information using the options server, client key, client certificate and
certificate authority with the kube control utility.
Obviously, typing those in every time is a tedious task.
So you move these information to a configuration file called as kube config, and then specify this
file as the kube config option in your command.
By default, the cube control tool looks for a file named config under a directory cube under the user's
home directory.
So if you create the cube config file there, you don't have to specify the path to the file explicitly
in the cube control command.
That's the reason you haven't been specifying any options for your cube control commands so far.
The cube config file is in a specific format.
Let's take a look at that.
The config file has three sections clusters, users, and contexts.
Clusters are the various Kubernetes clusters that you need access to.
So you have multiple clusters for development environment or testing environment, or prod, or for
different organizations, or on different cloud providers, etc. all those go there.
Users are the user accounts with which you have access to these clusters, for example the admin user,
a dev user, a prod producer, etc. these users may have different privileges on different clusters.
Finally, contexts marry these together.
Context define which user account will be used to access which cluster.
For example, you could create a context named admin at production that will use the admin account to
access a production cluster.
Or I may want to access the cluster I have set up on Google with the dev user's credentials to test
deploying the application I built.
Remember, you're not creating any new users or configuring any kind of user access or authorization
in the cluster.
With this process, you're using existing users with their existing privileges and defining what user
you're going to use to access what cluster.
That way, you don't have to specify the user certificates and server address in each and every kube
control command you run.
So how does it fit into our example?
The server Service specification in our command goes into the cluster section.
The admin users keys and certificates goes into the users section.
You then create a context that specifies to use the Mycube admin user to access the Mycube playground
cluster.
Let's look at a real Kubeconfig file.
Now the Kubeconfig file is in YAML format.
It has API version set to v1.
The kind is config and then it has three sections as we discussed.
One for clusters, one for contexts, and one for users.
Each of these is in an array format.
That way you can specify multiple clusters, users, or contexts within the same file.
Under clusters, we add a new item for our Cube Playground cluster.
We name it My Cube Playground and specify the server address under the server field.
It also requires the certificate of the certificate authority.
We can then add an entry into the users section to specify details of my cube admin user, provide the
location of the client certificate and key pair.
So we have now defined the cluster and the user to access the cluster.
Next, we create an entry under the context section to link the two together.
We will name the context my Cube admin at my cube playground.
We will then specify the same name we used for cluster and user.
Follow the same procedure to add all the clusters.
You daily access the user credentials you use to access them as well as the contexts.
Once the file is ready, remember that you don't have to create any object like you usually do for other
Kubernetes objects.
The file is left as is and is read by the cube control command and the required values are used.
Now how does cube control know which context to choose from?
We have defined three contexts here.
Which one should it start with?
You can specify the default context to use by adding a field current context to the kubeconfig file.
Specify the name of the context to use.
In this case, kube control will always use the context dev user at Google to access the Google clusters
using the dev user's credentials.
There are command line options available within kube control to view and modify the Kubeconfig files.
To view the current file being used, run the kube control config view command.
It lists the cluster's context and users, as well as the current context that is set.
As we discussed earlier, if you do not specify which kubeconfig file to use, it ends up using the
default file located in the folder kube in the user's home directory.
Alternatively, you can specify a kubeconfig file by passing the kube config option in the command line
like this.
We will move our custom config to the home directory, so this becomes our default config file.
So how do you update your current context.
So you've been using minikube admin user to access my Kube playground.
How do you change the context to use prod user to access the production cluster?
Run the kube control config.
Use context command to change the current context to the producer at production context.
This can be seen in the current context field in the file.
So yes, the changes made by kube control config command actually reflects in the file.
You can make other changes in the file update or delete items in it using other variations of the kube
control config command.
Check them out when you get time.
What about namespaces for example?
Each cluster may be configured with multiple namespaces within it.
Can you configure a context to switch to a particular namespace?
Yes.
The context section in the Kubeconfig file can take additional field called namespace, where you can
specify a particular namespace.
This way when you switch to that context, you will automatically be in a specific namespace.
Finally, a word on certificates you have seen.
Paths to certificate files mentioned in Kubeconfig.
Like this.
Well, it's better to use the full path like this.
But remember, there's also another way to specify the certificate credentials.
Let's look at the first one for instance where we configure the path to the certificate authority.
We have the contents of the file on the right.
Instead of using certificate authority field and the path to the file, you may optionally use the Certificate
Authority data field and provide the contents of the certificate itself, but not the file as is.
Convert the contents to a base64 encoded format and then pass that in.
Similarly, if you see a file with the certificates data in the encoded format, use the base64 decode
option to decode the certificate.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Practice Exercises section.
Practice working with Kubeconfig files and troubleshooting issues.

--- Lab - KubeConfig ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - KubeConfig ---

-: Okay, so let's go through the lab
on cube config or security context.
So where is the default cube config file located
in the current environment?
Find the current home directory
by looking at the home environment variable.
So let's look at home.
And home is set to root,
which is the current directory we are in.
So we know that it's usually
under the hidden cube directory.
So we have a cube directory here.
And then, and you have config here.
So if you look at this, you have dot cube slash config
and that's really the cube config file.
So it's at root dot cube slash config.
So root dot cube slash config.
So that's the one.
Now, how many clusters are defined
in the default cube config file?
So if you look at this, the clusters, you have one cluster
and then you have context.
So you just have one cluster.
So that's one.
How many users are defined in the default cube config file?
So here you see the users are just one again.
So here you have the user
and you have the certificate information here.
So it's just one.
How many contacts are defined
in the default cube config file?
If you look at the context, you have one
and that's just one.
So you just have one context.
Now, what is the user configured in the current context?
So if you look at the current context,
it's Kubernetes admin at Kubernetes.
That's the name of the context.
And so that is this.
So this is that context.
And if you look at this, the user is Kubernetes admin.
So remember that this is just the name.
So you shouldn't assume
that this is the actual user, configured,
but it so happens that in this case, the naming
and convention is this user at the cluster.
But you should always look at this field.
So this is the actual user that's configured
for that context.
So it is Kubernetes dash admin.
Now, what is the name of the cluster configured
in the default cube config file?
So the name of the cluster:
so this is the cluster and the name is Kubernetes.
Okay, so a new cube config file named my cube config
is created and it's in the root directory.
So let's look at that,
my cube config,
and it is placed
in the root directory.
And how many clusters are defined in that
cube config file?
So let's look at this file.
So you have 1, 2, 3, 4, 4 clusters.
How many contexts are configured in the my cube config file?
If you look at this, you have 1, 2, 3, 4, 4 context.
What user is configured in the research context?
So if you look at the research context
you see that the user is dev user.
So that's dev user is that user.
Now, what is the name
of the client certificate file configured for the AWS user?
So you have users here and you have AWS user.
The client certificate file.
The file name is AWS user dot crt
so that's AWS user dot crt.
What is the current context set to
in the My Cube config file?
The current context, as you can see here,
is test user at development.
So that's the current context.
That's test user development.
Now, I would like to use the dev user
to access test cluster one.
I'll set the current context to the right one,
so I can do that.
And once the right context is identified
use the cube config file and use context command.
So dev user to access test cluster one.
So we're gonna look at contexts and dev user.
So this is the dev user.
And to access test cluster one
there's already a context called research created.
So we're going to use that.
So what we need to do
is use the cube kubectl config command.
So cube kubectl config command,
and use the context command.
And the context that we're going to use is research.
Now remember that by default,
the cube kubectl config command
will use the default cube config file
which is in root dot cube slash config.
This is in a different file that we want it to work on.
So we have to provide this file name like this.
Okay, so switched to context research.
Let's check it out.
And we see that current context,
but in the file it's set to research.
Okay, let's check the work.
Now, we don't want to have to specify
the cube config file option on each command.
So make the my cube config file
the default cube config file.
So this is what we want to use going forward.
So what we're going to do
is gonna move this cube config file
as the default one, which is available here.
Okay, let's make sure that move was complete.
Yep. So going forward, we don't have to.
We could do a cube config view
and we can see that this is the new view.
Let's check it.
So this is the new file.
Okay, now with the current context set to research,
we are trying to access the cluster.
However, something seems to be wrong.
Identify and fix the issue.
So let's do get notes command.
We see that there's something wrong.
So it says, unable to read client cert atc Kubernetes
PKI users, dev user, developer user dot CRT
for the dev user.
So let's check content of the file.
And we see that the dev user has a client certificate
which is set to Dev user, User crt.
Now all user certificates are stored in this directory.
So let's go here, we have the dev user, let's go here.
And we see that it's dev user dot crt
dev user dot csr, dev user dot key.
So it's dev user dot crt, not developer user dot crt.
So we're gonna have to modify that.
So let's go in and let's change this.
So that's fixed.
Let's try it again.
Yep. That seems to be working.
Okay, so that is the end of this lab.

--- Persistent Key/Value Store ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- API Groups ---

Before we head into authorization, it is necessary to understand about API groups in Kubernetes.
But first, what is the Kubernetes API?
We learned about the kube API server.
Whatever operations we have done so far with the cluster, we've been interacting with the API server
one way or the other, either through the kube control utility or directly via Rest.
Say we want to check the version.
We can access the API server at the master node's address, followed by the port, which is 6443 by
default, and the API version it returns the version.
Similarly, to get the list of pods, you would access the url api slash v1 slash pods.
Our focus in this lecture is about these API paths, the version and the API.
The Kubernetes API is grouped into multiple such groups based on their purpose, such as one for APIs,
one for health, one for metrics and logs, etc. the version API is for viewing the version of the cluster.
As we just saw, the metrics and health API are used to monitor the health of the cluster.
The logs are used for integrating with third party logging applications.
In this video, we will focus on the APIs responsible for the cluster functionality.
These APIs are categorized into two the core group and the named group.
The core group is where all core functionality exists, such as namespaces, pods, replication, controllers,
events, endpoints, nodes, bindings, persistent volumes, persistent volume claims, config maps,
secrets, services, etc..
The named group APIs are more organized and going forward.
All the newer features are going to be made available through these named groups.
It has groups under it for apps, extensions, networking, storage, authentication, authorization,
etc..
Shown here are just a few.
Within apps you have.
deployments, replica sets, stateful sets.
Within networking you have network policies, certificates, have the certificate signing request that
we talked about earlier in this section.
So the ones at the top are API groups and the ones at the bottom are resources in those groups.
Each resource in this has a set of actions associated with them.
Things that you can do with these resources such as.
List the deployments.
Get information about one of these deployments.
Create a deployment, delete a deployment, update a deployment watch a deployment, etc. these are
known as verbs.
The Kubernetes API reference page can tell you what the API group is for each object.
Select an object and the first section in the documentation page shows its group details.
V1 core is just v1.
You can also view these on your Kubernetes cluster.
Access your kube API server at port 643 without any path, and it will list you the available API groups,
and then within the named API groups, it returns all the supported resource groups.
A quick note on accessing the cluster API like that.
If you were to access the API directly through curl as shown here, then you will not be allowed access
except for certain APIs like version, as you have not specified any authentication mechanisms.
So you have to authenticate to the API using your certificate files by passing them in the command line
like this.
An alternate option is to start a kube control proxy client.
The kube control proxy command launches a proxy service locally on port 8001, and uses credentials
and certificates from your kube config file to access the cluster.
That way you don't have to specify those in the curl command.
Now you can access the kube control proxy service at port 8001, and the proxy will use the credentials
from kube config file to forward your request to the kube API server.
This will list all available APIs at root.
So here are two terms that kind of sound the same.
The kube proxy and kube control proxy.
Well they are not the same.
We discussed about kube proxy earlier in this course.
It is used to enable connectivity between pods and services across different nodes in the cluster.
We discussed about kube proxy in much more detail later in this course.
Whereas kube control proxy is an HTTP proxy service created by kube control utility to access the kube
API server.
So what to take away from this?
All resources in Kubernetes are grouped into different API groups.
At the top level you have core API group and named API group.
Under the named API group you have one for each section.
Under this API groups you have the different resources and each resource has a set of associated actions
known as verbs.
In the next section on authorization, we can see how we use these to allow or deny access to users.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
I will see you in the next.

--- Authorization ---

So far we talked about authentication.
We saw how someone can gain access to a cluster.
We saw different ways that someone, a human or a machine can get access to the cluster.
Once they gain access, what can they do?
That's what authorization defines.
First of all, why do you need authorization in your cluster as an administrator of the cluster?
We were able to perform all sorts of operations in it, such as viewing various objects like pods and
nodes and deployments, creating or deleting objects such as adding or deleting pods or even nodes in
the cluster.
As an admin, we're able to perform any operation, but soon we will have others accessing the cluster
as well, such as the other administrators, developers, testers, or other applications like monitoring
applications or continuous delivery applications like Jenkins, etc. so we will be creating accounts
for them to access the cluster by creating usernames and passwords or tokens or signed TLS certificates
or service accounts, as we saw in the previous lectures.
But we don't want all of them to have the same level of access as us.
For example, we don't want the developers to have access to modify our cluster configuration, like
adding or deleting nodes or the storage or networking configurations.
We can allow them to view but not modify, but they could have access to deploying applications.
The same goes with service accounts.
We only want to provide the external application the minimum level of access to perform its required
operations.
When we share our cluster between different organizations or teams by logically partitioning it using
namespaces, we want to restrict access to the users to their namespaces alone.
That is what authorization can help you within the cluster.
There are different authorization mechanisms supported by Kubernetes, such as node authorizer, attribute
based access control, role based access control, and webhook.
Let us go through these now.
We know that the cube API server is accessed by users like us for management purposes, as well as the
Cubelets or nodes within the cluster for management purposes within the cluster.
The Cubelet accesses the API server to read information about services, endpoints, nodes, and pods.
The Cubelet also reports to the cube API server with information about the node, such as its status.
These requests are handled by a special authorizer known as the node authorizer.
In the earlier lectures, when we discussed about certificates, we discussed that the Cubelets should
be part of the system nodes group and have a name prefixed with system node.
So any requests coming from a user with the name system node and part of the system nodes group is authorized
by the node authorizer and are granted these privileges.
The privileges required for a Cubelet.
So that's access within the cluster.
Let's talk about external access to the API.
For instance, a user attribute based authorization is where you associate a user or a group of users
with a set of permissions.
In this case, we say the dev user can view, create, and delete pods.
You do this by creating a policy file with a set of policies defined in a JSON format.
This way you pass this file into the API server.
Similarly, we create a policy definition file for each user or group in this file.
Now, every time you need to add or make a change in the security, you must edit this policy file manually
and restart the kube API server.
As such, the attribute based access control configurations are difficult to manage.
We will look at role based access controls next.
Role based access controls make this much easier with role based access controls.
Instead of directly associating a user or a group with a set of permissions.
We define a rule in this case for developers.
We create a rule with the set of permissions required for developers.
Then we associate all the developers to that role.
Similarly, create a role for security users with the right set of permissions required for them.
Then associate the user to that role going forward whenever a change needs to be made to the user's
access.
We simply modify the role and it reflects on all developers immediately.
Role based access controls provide a more standard approach to managing access within the Kubernetes
cluster.
We will look at role based access controls in much more detail in the next lecture.
For now, let's proceed with the other authorization mechanisms.
Now what if you want to outsource all the authorization mechanisms?
Say you want to manage a authorization externally and not through the built in mechanisms that we just
discussed.
For instance, Open Policy Agent is a third party tool that helps with admission control and authorization.
You can have Kubernetes make an API call to the open policy agent with the information about the user
and his access requirements, and have the open policy agent decide if the user should be permitted
or not.
Based on that response, the user is granted access.
Now there are two more modes in addition to what we just saw always allow and always deny.
As the name states, Always allow allows all requests without performing any authorization checks.
Always deny denies all requests.
So where do you configure these modes?
Which of them are active by default?
Can you have more than one at a time?
How does authorization work?
If you do have multiple ones configured, the modes are set using the authorization mode option on the
kube API server.
If you don't specify this option, it is set to always allow by default.
You may provide a comma separated list of multiple modes that you wish to use.
In this case, I want to set it to node, Rbac and webhook.
When you have multiple modes configured, your request is authorized using each one in the order it
is specified.
For example, when a user sends a request, it's first handled by the node authorizer.
The node authorizer handles only node requests, so it denies the request.
Whenever a module denies a request, it is forwarded to the next one in the chain.
The role based access control module performs its checks and grants.
The user permission.
Authorization is complete and user is given access to the requested object.
So every time a module denies a request, it goes to the next one in the chain, and as soon as a module
approves the request, no more checks are done and the user is granted permission.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
In the upcoming lectures, we will discuss more about role based access controls.

--- Role Based Access Controls ---

In this lecture, we look at role based access controls in much more detail.
So how do we create a role?
We do that by creating a role object.
So we create a role definition file with the API version set to Rbac, dot authorization, dot k.io
v1, and kind set to role.
We name the role developer as we are creating this role for developers.
And then we specify rules.
Each rule has three sections API groups, resources and verbs.
The same things that we talked about in one of the previous lectures.
For core group.
You can leave the API groups section as blank.
For any other group, you specify the group name.
The resources that we want to give developers access to are pods.
The actions that they can take are list, get, create, and delete.
Similarly, to allow the developers to create config maps, we add another rule to create config map.
We can add multiple rules for a single role like this.
Create the rule using the cube control.
Create rule command.
The next step is to link the user to that rule.
For this we create another object called rule binding.
The rule binding object links a user object to a rule.
We will name it dev user to developer binding.
The kind is rule binding.
It has two sections.
The subjects is where we specify the user details.
The rule ref section is where we provide the details of the rule we created.
Create the rule binding using the cube control create command.
Also note that the roles and role bindings fall under the scope of namespaces.
So here the dev user gets access to pods and Configmaps within the default namespace.
If you want to limit the dev users access within a different namespace, then specify the namespace
within the metadata of the definition file while creating them.
To view the created roles.
Run the Kube control.
Get roles.
Command to list role bindings from the Kube control.
Get role bindings command to view more details about the role.
When the kube control describe role developer command, here you see the details about the resources
and permissions for each resource.
Similarly, to view details about role bindings, run the kube control describe role bindings command.
Here you can see details about an existing role binding.
What if you, being a user, would like to see if you have access to a particular resource in the cluster?
You can use the kube control auth.
Can I command and check if you can say create deployments or say delete nodes?
If you are an administrator, then you can even impersonate another user to check their permission.
For instance, say you were tasked to create necessary set of permissions for a user to perform a set
of operations.
And you did that, but you would like to test if what you did is working.
You don't have to authenticate as the user to test it.
Instead, you can use the same command with the as user option.
Like this.
Since we did not grant the developer permissions to create deployments, it returns null.
The dev user has access to creating pods, though you can also specify the namespace in the command
like this.
The dev user does not have permission to create a pod in the test namespace.
Well, a quick note on resource names.
We just saw how you can provide access to users for resources like pods within the namespace.
You can go one level down and allow access to specific resources alone.
For example, say you have five pods in namespace.
You want to give access to a user to pods, but not all pods.
You can restrict access to the blue and orange pod alone by adding a resource names field to the rule.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Practice Exercises section and practice working with role based access controls.

--- Lab - Role-Based Access Controls ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Role-Based Access Controls ---

Instructor: Okay, in this lab,
we're going to look at role-based access controls.
So the first question is,
inspect the environment and identify authorization modes
configured on the cluster.
So let's look at the kube API server.
So
etc
kubernetes manifests
kube api server.yaml.
And then, here we see the options passed
to the kube API server.
And if you look at the authorization mode,
you have Node and RBAC.
So that's one way of checking that.
The other way is to,
we're gonna look at the processes on the control plane.
So we're gonna do a ps -aux
grep for authorization mode.
So we know that, ultimately,
all containers are running as processes
on the control plane.
So we look at the authorization mode configured
on the kube API server.
So this is basically the kube API server service.
And if you look at the authorization mode,
it's set to Node and RBAC.
These are two ways of finding out
the settings passed to the kube API server.
So it's Node and RBAC.
Now, how many roles exist in the default namespace?
So we're going to do kube cuttle
get roles.
And in the default namespace, there are no roles.
So let's select that.
How many roles exist in all namespaces?
So we're gonna pass in the -A to get all namespaces.
And instead of counting, we're going to do no headers.
So that prints it without this header.
And then we'll do a word count
to count the length and to count all the lines.
And we get,
and the answer to that is 12.
So let's select 12.
Okay, now, what are the resources, the kube proxy role
in the kube system namespace is given access to?
So here we have the kube proxy role.
So let's check that out.
So let's do a kube cuttle
describe role
kube
proxy
-: n
kube system.
System.
And we see that the resources
that this kube proxy role has access to is then config map.
So config maps.
And what actions can the kube proxy role
perform on the config map?
So the actions that it can perform for now is just get.
Oops, I accidentally clicked that.
So which of the following statements are true?
Kube proxy role can get details of a config map object
by the name kube proxy.
So we know that, that's true,
because kube proxy role can
get the config map by the name kube proxy.
Kube proxy role can delete the config map.
It cannot delete the config map,
because it doesn't have the delete verb here.
And the kube proxy rule can only view and update
the config map object by the name.
Obviously, this is incorrect, but still.
So what we need to understand here is that
the kube proxy role can only get
a config map with the resource name kube proxy.
So that's the correct answer.
Now, which account is the kube proxy role assigned to?
So for that, we need to look at role binding.
So let's look at role bindings,
role bindings in the kube system namespace.
And if you look at this, we see that,
so the kube proxy role is part
of the kube proxy role binding.
So let's look at the kube proxy role binding
in a bit more detail.
So you have kube cuttle describe
role bindings
kube proxy
in the default, sorry, in the kube system namespace.
And here you can see the group that it has access
to
for the account that the kube proxy role is assigned to.
So that's system bootstrappers kube admin
default node token,
that's the group that it's assigned to.
So a user, dev user is created,
the user's details have been added to a kube config file.
So let's look at the kube config file,
let's do a kube cuttle config view.
And we can see that there's a user named dev user.
And inspect the permissions granted to the user.
So check if the user can list pods in the default namespace.
So we can do a kube cuttle get pods,
and we can use the ask dev user
option to view as the dev user.
(keyboard keys click)
So as you can see, it's forbidden.
The user, dev user cannot list resource pods
in the API group in the default namespace.
So the dev user has permissions,
does not have permissions, that's the correct answer.
Now, create the necessary roles and role bindings
required for the dev user to create, list,
and delete pods in the default namespace.
So first, we have to create the role,
and role bindings for the dev user.
So we're gonna do a kube cuttle create role.
Let's take a look at the help.
So we have create role and then the role name,
and then the verbs.
So the verbs could be passed in, comma separated,
and the resources that, that role has access to.
So that's going to be,
let us do that.
So it's kube cuttle create role,
and verbs are going to be list,
create and delete.
And resources
are going to be pods.
And let's also give it a name.
The name is developer.
It's resource, I think.
Yep.
So let's describe the role.
We can see that the developer role is created
with list, create and delete access to pods.
Now, we have to create a role binding and bind it to the,
so let's do a kube cuttle create role binding
help.
And we see we can do create a role binding,
the name is gonna be dev user binding,
then the cluster role or
user, our end group.
So what we wanna do is we wanna bind the dev user.
So this one and the role name,
we're gonna use role.
So we're going to use kube cuttle create role binding,
and dev user binding.
And the role is going to be developer.
And
the user is going to be dev user.
Then let's check
the role binding,
dev user binding.
We can see user, dev user
is now associated to developer role.
Okay?
Now, the dev user is trying to get details
about the dark blue app pod in the blue namespace.
But there is an issue.
So investigate and fix the issue.
So let's do that as the dev user.
As dev user,
I'm going to get details
about the pod
dark blue app,
but in the blue namespace.
Perfect, in the blue namespace.
So it says dark blue app is forbidden,
user, dev user cannot get resource pods
in the API group in the namespace blue.
But it says that we have created the required roles
in role binding.
So let's take a look at that.
Let's take a look at the roles in the blue namespace.
We can see that there's a developer role,
and then there's also role bindings in the blue namespace.
So there's the dev user binding role.
So let's take a closer look at those.
Describe
role
developer in the blue namespace.
And we see that
it has resource pods and the resource names,
blue app then can do a get, watch, create and delete.
But here, as you can see, it's not blue,
it's dark blue app.
So that's basically the reason that you can't access that.
So we're going to edit the role developer
in the blue namespace.
And what we're going to do is
change this to dark blue app.
Okay, now, let's do that again.
So we're gonna do a get pod dark blue app
in the blue namespace as the user, dev user.
Okay, and we can see that it is now in a running state.
So that's fixed.
Now, we would like to grant the dev user permissions
to create deployments in blue namespace.
So let's try that.
As the dev user, I want to create a deployment
called nginx, save with image nginx.
This could be anything, this is just a test.
But in the blue namespace, when I try to do that,
it says the user,
dev user cannot create resource deployments
in API group apps in the default,
in the blue namespace.
So what we have to do is we're gonna
edit the role
of developer,
which is used by the dev user in the blue namespace.
And what we're gonna do is,
so this is one rule that allows a get, watch,
and create and delete on the dark blue app pod.
What we're going to do is we're gonna create a new rule.
So we can just copy this and we're just gonna paste that.
And what we'll do is set,
the API groups for deployment is apps.
So we're gonna put apps.
We're not gonna give any resource names,
because we want to be able to create any resource,
any resource name.
Here, we're going to say deployment.
And we're gonna allow get, watch, create, and delete.
Because after creating, we obviously wanna get,
or watch it or even delete.
So let's just give that.
Okay, so that's done.
Let's verify that.
Role developer in the blue namespace.
And we see that we have deployment.apps,
and we're now able to get, watch, create and delete.
So let's try the command again to create a deployment
called nginx in the blue namespace.
Okay, that's still not working.
Let's see where that is.
So actually it should be deployments, sorry about that.
Let's go and change that.
Okay.
And let's try that again.
Okay, and that works.
Yep, so that should be the fix to this.
All right, so that's the end of this lab.

--- Cluster Roles ---

We discussed about roles and role bindings in the previous lecture.
In this lecture we will talk about cluster roles and cluster role bindings.
When we talked about roles and role bindings, we said that roles and role bindings are namespaced,
meaning they are created within namespaces.
If you don't specify a namespace, they are created in the default namespace and control access within
that namespace alone.
In one of the previous lectures, we discussed about namespaces and how it helps in grouping or isolating
resources like pods, deployments, and services.
But what about other resources like nodes?
Can you group or isolate nodes within a namespace?
Like can you say node zero one is part of the namespace?
Now those are cluster wide or cluster scoped resources.
They cannot be associated to any particular namespace.
So the resources are categorized as either namespace or cluster scoped.
code.
Now, we have seen a lot of Namespaced resources throughout this course, like pods and replica sets
and jobs, deployments, services, secrets.
And in the last lecture, we saw two new roles and role bindings.
These resources are created in the namespace you specify when you create them.
If you don't specify a namespace, they're created in the default namespace.
To view them or delete them or update them, you always specify the right namespace.
The cluster scoped resources are those where you don't specify a namespace when you create them like
nodes, persistent volumes persist the cluster roles and cluster role bindings that we're going to look
at in this lecture.
Certificate signing request.
We saw earlier and namespace objects themselves are of course not namespaced.
Note that this is not a comprehensive list of resources.
To see a full list of namespaces and non namespace resources.
Run the kube control API resources command with the namespace option set.
In the previous lecture, we saw how to authorize a user to namespace resources.
We use roles and role bindings for that.
But how do we authorize users to cluster wide resources like nodes or persistent volumes?
That is where you use cluster roles and cluster role bindings.
Cluster roles are just like roles, except they are for cluster scoped resources.
For example, a cluster admin role can be created to provide a cluster administrator permissions to
view, create, or delete nodes in a cluster.
Similarly, a storage administrator role can be created to authorize a storage admin to create persistent
volumes and claims.
Create a cluster role definition file with the cluster role and specify the roles as we did before.
In this case, the resources are nodes.
Then create the cluster role.
The next step is to link the user to that cluster role.
For this we create another object called cluster role.
Binding.
The role binding object links the user to the role.
We will name it limit cluster admin role binding.
The client is cluster role binding under subjects.
We specify the user details cluster admin user.
In this case, the role ref section is where we provide the details of the cluster role we created.
Create the role binding using the cube control create command.
One thing to note before I let you go, we said that cluster roles and bindings are used for cluster
scope resources, but that is not a hard rule.
You can create a cluster role for namespace resources as well.
When you do that, the user will have access to these resources across all namespaces.
Earlier, when we created a role to authorize a user to access pods, the user had access to the pods
in a particular namespace alone with cluster roles.
When you authorize a user to access the pods, the user gets access to all pods across the cluster.
Kubernetes creates a number of cluster roles by default when the cluster is first set up.
We will explore those in the practice tests that are coming up.
Good luck!

--- Lab - Cluster Roles ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Cluster Roles ---

-: Okay, in this lab we'll go
over cluster roles and cluster role bindings.
So for the first few questions of this lab,
you would have to inspect the existing cluster roles
and cluster role bindings that have already been created.
So let's go over that.
So how many cluster roles do you see defined in the cluster?
So let's do a kubectl get cluster roles.
Okay, so there seems to be a lot.
So you have the cluster admin,
a lot of system cluster roles, and then a few others.
So we're going to count this,
but we're not going to count it manually.
So we're going to do no headers, right,
and then we're going to do a word count,
sorry, word count-l.
And that's 69.
So we're going to select 69.
Now, how many cluster role bindings exist on the system?
So let's do the same thing.
We're going to get cluster role bindings, and that's 54.
Now, what namespace is the cluster admin
cluster role part of?
So, if you do a
kubectl get cluster roles,
you will see that they all are here,
but as we learned, these are not namespaced.
So cluster roles and cluster role bindings
are not namespaced.
So they're not specific to any namespace.
So cluster roles are cluster wide
and not part of any namespace.
So that's the correct answer here.
Now, what user or groups
are the cluster admin role bound to?
So the cluster role binding for the role
is with the same name.
Let's take a look at that.
Okay, let's get
cluster role bindings
and look for cluster admin.
So the cluster admin role is associated
with the cluster admin, cluster role binding.
There are a few others as well,
but we are just going to look at this.
So let's describe the cluster role bindings
or cluster admin.
And we see that it's part of the group system masters.
So it's asking the user and groups.
We can also check these out.
Let's check those out.
As you can see, they're associated with a service account,
and I'm guessing this is to associate it
with a service account.
So we'll just focus on this,
and it's associated with the system masters group.
So of this, it's system masters.
Now, what level of permission
does the cluster admin role want?
So let's take a look at that.
Kubectl describe cluster role and cluster admin.
And we see that it's all star
star.star and star, star, star.
So star means any and all access to all resources.
So that's basically perform any action
on any resource in the cluster.
Now a new user, now Michelle joined the team,
she will be focusing on the nodes in the cluster.
So create the required cluster role
and cluster role binding so she gets access to the node.
So basically we're looking at kubectl get nodes,
but as the user Michelle,
and as you can see, it says, "Nodes forbidden.
User Michelle cannot list resource nodes in the APA group."
So it does not give any kind of specifications
on the cluster role name or role binding,
so basically we should be able to do
we should be able to create any role
and role bindings as we want.
So let's, as long as this command works,
this exercise should be good.
So if there are no specifications given,
we are free to name things, anything as we want.
So let's do a kubectl create cluster role.
Let's look it up.
And we see kubectl create cluster role
then the name followed by work and resource.
And this is basically what we want.
So we're going to name this,
let's say Michelle-role,
and we should have a get list and watch.
And the resource is nodes, okay?
Now we have to create a cluster role binding.
Cluster role binding.
And let's look at the help.
And so a cluster role binding binds a cluster role
to a user, right?
So as simple as that.
We're going to
create a cluster role binding.
We'll call this-
We'll call this Michelle-role-binding.
Then we will have cluster role,
which is Michelle-role.
That's what we created.
And the user is Michelle.
Okay, let's take a look at that cluster role.
So first look at Michelle role,
and then let's look at your role binding,
which is your role binding.
So we have get list and watch access to nodes.
Then we have the Michelle role
associated with Michelle user.
So let's try the command again to test access.
So kubectl get nodes as Michelle.
And that's working.
Okay, so let's check our work.
Okay, so that's successful.
Now, the next question is
Michelle's responsibilities are growing
and now she will be responsible for storage as well,
so create the required cluster role
and role bindings to allow her access to storage.
Get the API groups and resource names
from the command kubectl API resources.
So the kubectl API resources command
is a command that will help you quickly-
let's just maximize this so we can see it better.
Okay, so this command lists all the resources
as well as their short names.
So if you ever want to know what the short names are
for some of these, this is the command
that you should look at.
So deploy has-
deployments have deploy, replicasets has rs.
So that's one thing.
It also is the API version.
So when you're creating an object,
and if you're not sure about the API version,
this is something that you can look at.
And also if they're namedspaced or not.
So as we learned, the persistent volumes and persistent
volume claims, I'm sorry,
the cluster role bindings are not namespaced,
so you should be able to see those here.
So cluster roles and cluster role bindings
are not namespaced.
And this is the kind that you would use
while creating a definition file, right?
So that's, that's pretty neat.
So what we want to do is we want to create back-
so we want to create a cluster role
to allow Michelle access to storage classes.
So I'm going to do a create cluster role.
The name is storage-admin.
So storage-admin, and the resource, there are two resources,
persistent volumes and storage classes.
So first resource is persistent volumes.
Let's get that,
and storage classes,
let's get that.
And the verbs are,
let's do list, create, get, and watch.
So those are the four verbs that I used.
So let's give this a shot.
Okay, so it's created, and let's check it out.
Kubectl describe cluster role storage-admin.
Okay, so that's created the role.
And I want to look at the role in the .yaml format.
And we can see that the cluster role is created,
name is storage-admin.
There are two rules.
So it's created two rules, one for each resource,
so we have persistent volumes,
and then you have storage class.
Okay, so that's good.
Now we have to create the cluster role binding.
So which is this.
So kubectl create cluster role.
So the name is Michelle-storage-admin.
The user is Michelle, and the cluster role
is storage-admin.
Okay, so let's take a look.
Okay, and we can see the cluster role that is
associated to a storage admin, and the user is Michelle.
So let's do kubectl as well and get storage classes.
You see that that's working as expected.
Okay.
Okay, so that's about it.
Well, that's the end of this lab.

--- Service Accounts ---

Let's now look at service accounts and Kubernetes.
So there are two types of accounts in Kubernetes.
A user account and a service account.
As you might already know, the user account is used by humans and the service accounts are used by
machines.
A user account could be for an administrator accessing the cluster to perform administrative tasks,
so a developer accessing the cluster to deploy applications.
A service account could be an account used by an application to interact with the Kubernetes cluster.
For example, a monitoring application like Prometheus uses a service account to poll the Kubernetes
API for performance metrics.
An automated build tool like Jenkins uses service accounts to deploy applications on Kubernetes cluster.
The second example I've built a simple Kubernetes dashboard application named my Kubernetes Dashboard.
It's a simple application built in Python, and all that it does when deployed is retrieve the list
of pods on a Kubernetes cluster by sending a request to the Kubernetes API and display it on a web page.
In order for my application to query the Kubernetes API, it has to be authenticated.
For that, we use a service account.
A service account is an identity of a service.
A service account is associated with what is known as a token.
A token is what is used to authenticate a service account into the Kubernetes API.
So if you have ever authenticated to an API using a curl command or something that you probably know
of, the tokens that are passed through as a bearer token in the header of the call.
This token is what proves the identity of the service account to the API endpoint.
Well, think of it this way if the service account was an ID card that we create for a service, the
barcode that's usually on the ID cards is the token.
It's the barcodes that are scanned by the gates to prove the identity of that user.
And it is this token that we will input in our Kubernetes dashboard later.
Now let's look at how service accounts and tokens work in Kubernetes.
By default, when a Kubernetes cluster is set up, it creates a service account by the name default
in all namespaces.
To list existing service accounts, use the kubectl get service account command.
To see the details of an existing service account, run the kubectl describe service account command.
Whenever a pod is created, the default service account is automatically attached to the pod.
As you can see in the output of the describe pod command.
Here, there's a service account field, and you can see that the service account associated with this
pod is named as default.
So the service account gets mounted as a projected volume within the pod.
So think of a projected volume as a dynamic directory created inside the pod by Kubernetes automatically.
So it is mounted at the location.
VAR run secrets Kubernetes service account.
Now if you list the contents of this directory, you'll see the token available as a file, and if you
look inside the contents of the file, you'll see the actual token itself.
The default service account comes with a lot of limitations, so if you have specific access requirements
we must create a custom service account.
So how do we do that.
To create a service account run the command cube CTL create service account followed by the service
account name which is dashboard Dash S.A. in this case, you can also of course create the service account
the declarative way using a YAML file like this.
So API version is v1, kind is service, account name is dashboard SA.
And to view the service accounts we run the kubectl get service account command.
This will list all the service accounts.
And we can see that our newly created service account is listed here.
And to list the details of a create a service account, we run the kubectl describe command and it lists
its details.
As you can see, when you first create a service account, it creates a blank service account with most
of its properties set to none.
So to associate a newly created service account to a pod, we pass the name of the service account using
the service account name field in the pod spec.
This time when we describe the pod, we see the dashboard service account associated with it.
And if you look inside the mounted directory, you get to see the token file.
Kubernetes automatically creates a short lived token and mounts it inside a projected volume.
The Kubelet also automatically rotates this token, and this token is bound to the life of the pod,
so it is automatically expired when the pod is deleted.
Now, if you don't want a token to be automatically created and mounted inside the pod for the service
account, you may add the auto mount Service account token key to false like this.
You can define this either at the service account level.
That way, no pods that use the service account gets the service account token auto mounted.
Or you can define it at the pod definition level so that irrespective of whether this property is set
at the service account level, it won't be auto mounted for that pod.
Now, for the pods or applications hosted within the Kubernetes cluster.
This setup that we've discussed so far works fine.
So the pod is associated to a service account, and as soon as the pod is associated to a service account,
Kubernetes automatically creates a token with an expiry date and automatically mounts that within the
pod at a particular location, which the application running inside the pod can refer to and read from
to make API calls to Kubernetes.
At times, you might want to create a token that is to be used outside of the cluster, maybe to paste
into the Kubernetes dashboard that we had created, or to put it into a CI CD tool or an external monitoring
tool.
In such cases, you can create a token by running the kubectl create token command.
It creates a token and shares it on screen.
And this token is not stored in any secret.
By default, all tokens are valid for one hour to extend the validity.
Add a duration flag to the command.
Like this.
If you decode this token using the jq and the base64 utility, you'll see an expiry defined as well
as the service account name and other details that are associated with this token.
This token can then be used as an authentication bearer token while making a Rest call to the Kubernetes
API.
For example, in this simple example using Curl, you could provide the bearer token as an authorization
header while making a Rest call to the Kubernetes API.
In case of my custom dashboard application, we can copy and paste the token into the tokens field to
authenticate the dashboard application.
So let's summarize what we have learned so far.
Service accounts are used by other applications or services to interact with Kubernetes.
Tokens are associated to service accounts to prove their identity.
To create a new service account, run the kubectl create service account command followed by the name
of the service account.
To use the service account from an external application, such as a CI, CD tool or monitoring tools.
We first create a token and specify the name of the service account associated with that, and it prints
the token.
On screen, you can then copy the token and paste it or use it in the external application.
Now for internal applications or pods that are within the cluster, every namespace has a default service
account.
The default service account is automatically attached to the pod on creation.
To attach a service account to a pod, we use the service account name field, and when a service account
is attached to a pod, Kubernetes automatically creates a token and mounts as a projected volume, automatically
rotates the token and automatically expires the token when the pod is deleted.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the labs and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Lab: Service Accounts ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution:  Service Accounts ---

Instructor: So the first question
is asking us how many service accounts exist
in the default namespace?
So I'll do a kubectl get and then we'll do service account.
I'm just gonna do sa for short and we can see
in the default namespace,
we've got two total service accounts,
one called default, one called dev.
Now, it's asking us what is the secret token used
by the default service account?
So to get this information, we'll go to kubectl
and we'll do a describe of the default service account.
And we wanna look under tokens.
And right now, we can see it's set to none.
So we'll select none.
We just deployed the dashboard application,
inspect the deployment, what is the image used
by the deployment?
So I'll do a kubectl get deployment,
and then I'll do a kubectl describe deployment
web-dashboard.
And we wanna go under pod template, under containers,
and then for the web-dashboard,
we could see this is the name of the container.
So I will select this one.
And this is just saying wait for the deployment to be ready.
And then you can access the dashboard application
by selecting this button right here.
And we can see the dashboard application.
So we'll hit OK here and we'll go to the next question,
saying what is the state of the dashboard?
Have the pod details loaded successfully?
So we'll go back to this
and we can see that, you know, there's some red text.
Usually that's not good.
So there's an error saying pods is forbidden.
User blah cannot list resources pods in the API group.
All right, so let's go back and we'll say that it failed.
It's asking us what type of account
does the dashboard application use
to query the Kubernetes API?
So if we go back, we can see here in the log message,
it's sayingsystemserviceaccount:defaultdefault
cannot list the resource pods.
So it's using a service account.
More specifically, it's using the default service account.
So which account does the dashboard application use
to query the Kubernetes API?
As I mentioned, it's using the default one.
So now it's saying inspect the dashboard application pod
and identify the service account mounted on it.
So we'll do a kubectl get pod
and I'm gonna do a kubectl describe
and we'll describe that pod and I forgot the word pod.
And we're trying to identify
the service account mounted on it.
So if we go up to the top,
there's gonna be a section called service account.
And we can see here it's set to default.
And the next question is asking at what location
is this service account credentials available
within the pod?
So if we go down here, we wanna go to the mount section
or if we go to the volume, sorry,
we wanna look at the mount section right here.
And so we could see it's mounted at /var/run/secrets.
So this is where the service account credentials
are gonna be mounted.
So we'll select /var/run/secrets.
Next question is asking us
the application needs a service account
with the right permissions to be created
to authenticate to Kubernetes.
The default service account has limited access.
Create a new service account named dashboard-sa.
So to do that, we just need to run one single command
and that's going to be kubectl create serviceaccount.
And then the name of the service account,
which is gonna be dashboard-sa.
So that's going to get created.
We'll then run the validation.
And this is just letting us know
that with the new service account that we created,
it went ahead and added in permissions
for the newly created dashboard-sa account using RBAC.
If you wanna take a look at the configurations,
you can always go to /var/rbac.
And here you could see the role
and role binding configurations.
But we're gonna discuss RBAC
in a separate section in this course.
So we'll hit OK for now.
So it's telling us to get an access token
and enter it in the UI dashboard and see
if that basically fixes the issue.
So to create a token,
we have to run the command kubectl create token
and then we're gonna create a token
for the dashboard-sa service account.
So this is going to be the token and we're gonna copy this.
We're gonna go back to the application
and we're gonna paste it in here.
And now if we do load dashboard, we could see
that we're able to load all of the pods
that's running on our cluster.
So now the next question is telling us, you know,
we shouldn't have to create a token and then paste it
into our application every time we need an application
to interact with the Kubernetes API.
So what we're gonna do is we're going
to edit the deployment configuration
for that specific deployment.
So instead of using the default service account,
it's going to use the dashboard service account
so it already has access to the API.
So here I'm gonna do a kubectl.
And then I'll do get deployment
and I'm gonna grab the web-dashboard
and I'm gonna pipe it to a YAML file
and I'll just call this dashboard.yaml
and then we'll go to the dashboard.yaml file.
And to specify this service account,
we wanna go under the spec for the pod.
So that's gonna be not the first spec
but the second one 'cause this is a deployment.
And under here,
we just specify serviceAccountName
and then the service account we wanna give it.
So this is gonna be dashboard-sa.
We'll save this
and then I'll do a kubectl apply -f dashboard.yaml.
Don't worry about the warning.
That's just because the first deployment
wasn't created using the apply command.
But that's all right.
So we've got kubctl get deployment.
All right, so now we can go ahead
and run the validation and we can see that was successful.
And if we go to the application now
and we hit refresh, I'm just gonna hit Control + R.
We refresh.
There's no token, but it's going to work now
because it's got the service account
and the token mounted automatically onto it.
And so that's going to wrap up this lab.

--- Image Security ---

In this lecture we will talk about securing images.
We will start with the basics of image names, and then work our way towards secure image repositories
and how to configure your pods to use images from secure repositories.
We deployed a number of different kinds of pods hosting different kinds of applications throughout this
course, like web apps and databases and Redis cache, etc..
Let's start with a simple pod definition file, for instance.
Here we have used the nginx image to deploy an nginx container.
Let's take a closer look at this image.
Name.
The name is nginx.
But what is this image and where is this image pulled from?
This name follows Dockers image naming convention nginx.
Here is the image or the repository name.
When you say nginx, it's actually library slash nginx.
The first part stands for the user or the account name.
So if you don't provide a user or account name, it assumes it to be library.
Library is the name of the default account where Docker's official images are stored.
These images promote best practices and are maintained by a dedicated team, who are responsible for
reviewing and publishing these official images.
Now, if you were to create your own account and create your own repositories or images under it, then
you would use a similar pattern.
So instead of library it would be your name or your company's name.
Now where are these images stored and pulled from?
Since we have not specified the location where these images are to be pulled from, it is assumed to
be Dockers default registry.
Docker hub.
The DNS name for which is Docker.io.
The registry is where all the images are stored.
Whenever you create a new image or update an image, you push it to the registry and every time anyone
deploys this application, it is pulled from the registry.
There are many other popular registries as well.
Google's registry is at Gcr.io, where a lot of Kubernetes related images are stored, like the ones
used for performing end to end tests on the cluster.
These are all publicly accessible images that anyone can download and access.
When you have applications built in-house that shouldn't be made available to the public.
Hosting an internal private registry may be a good solution.
Many cloud service providers, such as AWS, Azure, or GCP, provide a private registry by default
on any of these solutions, be it on Docker Hub or Google's Registry or your internal private registry.
You may choose to make a repository private so that it can be accessed using a set of credentials from
Dockers perspective.
To run a container using a private image, you first login to your private registry using a Docker login
command.
Input your credentials.
Once successful, run the application using the image from the private registry.
Going back to our Pod definition file to use an image from our private registry, we replace the image
name with the full path to the one in the private registry.
But how do we implement the authentication?
The login part?
How does Kubernetes get the credentials to access the private registry within Kubernetes?
We know that the images are pulled and run by the Docker runtime on the worker nodes.
How do you pass the credentials to the Docker runtimes on the worker nodes?
For that, we first create a secret object with the credentials in it.
The secret is of type docker registry and we name it.
Docker registry is a built in secret type that was built for storing Docker credentials.
We then specify the registry server name, the username to access the registry, the password, and
the email address of the user.
We then specify the secret inside our Pod definition file under the Image Pull Secrets section.
When the Pod is created, Kubernetes or the Kubelets on the worker node uses the credentials from the
secret to pull images.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Practice Exercises section and practice working with secure images.

--- Lab - Image Security ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Image Security ---

Narrator: Okay, we will now walk
through the lab on security, image security.
So, the first question is,
"What secret type must we choose for Docker registry?"
So, if you look at the different types of secrets
that we can create. you see
that we have Docker registry, generic NGLs.
So, Docker registry is the one that we're gonna use
for Docker registry.
Now, we have an application running on our cluster.
Let us explore it first.
So, let's do it.
Oh, the deploy.
And we see that we have a web- An application
by the name web.
And what image is the application using?
So, let's take a look at in full set areas.
Okay, now let's take a look at the deployment web,
and we see that it's using the engine X alpine image.
So, let's select that.
Now, we decided to use a modified version
of the application
from an internal private registry.
So, update the image of the deployment to use a new image
from my privateregistry.com/5,000.
So, we have a private registry, and we know
that if you do not specify a registry
before the image name it's going
to the default- It's gonna pull it
from the default location on Docker hub.
So, what we want to do is we want to edit the deployment,
and we want it to pull the image
from the private registry.
So, I'm just going to copy this,
and paste it here, and also add a slash.
So, let's save that.
Okay, so that's done.
Let's check it out.
We see that the image aim has been updated.
And don't worry about the status for now,
because we're gonna fix that in a bit.
So, let's see if-
Let's see if the pods are running.
So, if you look at it, the pod,
this is the new pod
that was created.
So, the rolling update kicked in,
and the deployment created a new pod
with the new image, but it left the existing ones as is
because only if the new pod was successful,
and was in a ready state,
it would kill the old pod,
and then would create the new pod,
because it's following a rolling update strategy, right?
So- but in this case, it's not even-
the new pod is not running.
It's in an image pulled back off state.
So, let's check that out.
So, it says 'fail to pull image,'
a malformed response.
So, that's basically because it doesn't have the permissions
to pull image from that repository.
So, the answer to this question is
No.
Now, create a secret object
with the credentials required to access the registry.
So let's create a secret.
You cuddle, create secret,
and this has to be
Docker registry.
So, let's take a look at the help,
and we see that here's a sample command.
So, let's run this command
along with the rest of it.
Okay, so, let's go and edit this.
So we have-
(pause in speaking)
Okay, so we have the name.
I'm going to use the name as-
Private Rights Spread,
Docker server.
Docker server as this,
and the Docker username, user.
And the password is password.
And the email is this.
Yes, I'm gonna remove the hash.
So, that's been created.
Okay.
Now configure the deployment to use credentials
from the new secret to pull images
from the private registry.
What we have to do is we have to configure the
the deployment,
or the pod to use this image.
So, let's first look at the credential's documentation page,
and let's look at image pool-
or image pool secret.
That's what it's called.
'pull an image from a private registry.'
And we should have-
Yes, so, this is what we need to do.
So, under the spec for the pod,
we must add the image pool secrets.
So, let us copy that,
and let's edit the deployment called web.
That's going to the pod template,
right here,
and we're going to add image pool secrets.
Let's align it,
and let's give the secret name,
which happens to be Private Rights Spread?
I'm going to save that.
Let's check the status of the deployment,
and we see
that there are no changes.
So, it looks like that worked.
It's pretty much check.
Yes, so that's successful.
Now, we're gonna check the status of the pods.
So, as you see, it's terminating the old pods,
and the new pods are created,
and that has the new images.
Okay, so that's the end of that lab.

--- Pre-requisite - Security in Docker ---

In this lecture we will talk about security contexts in Kubernetes.
But before we get into that, it is important to have some knowledge about security in Docker.
If you are familiar with security in Docker, feel free to skip this lecture and head over to the next.
In this lecture, we will look at the various concepts related to security in Docker.
Let us start with a host with Docker installed on it.
This host has a set of its own processes running, such as a number of operating system processes,
the Docker daemon itself, the SSH server, etc. we will now run an Ubuntu Docker container that runs
a process that sleeps for an hour.
We have learned that unlike virtual machines, containers are not completely isolated from their host
containers, and the hosts share the same kernel.
Containers are isolated using namespaces.
In Linux, the host has a namespace and the containers have their own namespace.
All the processes run by the containers are in fact run on the host itself, but in their own namespace.
As far as the Docker container is concerned, it is in its own namespace and it can see its own processes
only.
It cannot see anything outside of it or in any other namespace.
So when you list the processes from within the Docker container, you see the sleep process with a process
ID of one for the Docker host, all processes of its own, as well as those in the child.
Namespaces are visible as just another process in the system.
So when you list the processes on the host, you see a list of processes, including the sleep command,
but with a different process ID.
This is because the processes can have different process IDs in different namespaces.
And that's how Docker isolates containers within a system.
So that's process isolation.
Let us now look at users in context of security.
The Docker host has a set of users A root user as well as a number of Non-root users.
By default, Docker runs processes within containers as the root user.
This can be seen in the output of the commands we ran earlier, both within the container and outside
the container on the host.
The process is run as the root user.
Now, if you do not want the process within the container to run as the root user, you may set the
user using the user option within the docker run command and specify the new user ID.
You will see that the process now runs with the new user ID.
Another way to enforce user security is to have this defined in the Docker image itself at the time
of creation.
For example, we will use the default ubuntu image and set the user id to 1000 using the user instruction.
Then build the custom image.
We can now run this image without specifying the user id, and the process will be run with the user
id 1000.
Let us take a step back.
What happens when you run containers as the root user?
Is the root user within the container the same as the root user on the host?
Can the process inside the container do anything that the root user can do on the system?
If so, isn't that dangerous?
Well, Docker implements a set of security features that limits the abilities of the root user within
the container.
So the root user within the container isn't really like the root user on the host.
Docker uses Linux capabilities to implement this.
As we all know, the root user is the most powerful user on a system.
The root user can literally do anything, and so does a process run by the root user.
It has unrestricted access to the system from modifying files and permissions on files, access control,
creating or killing processes, setting group ID or user ID.
Performing network related operations such as binding to network ports.
Broadcasting on a network.
controlling network ports system related operations like rebooting the host, manipulating system clock,
and many more.
All of these are the different capabilities on a Linux system, and you can see a full list at this
location.
You can now control and limit what capabilities are made available to a user.
By default, Docker runs a container with a limited set of capabilities, and so the processes running
within the container do not have the privileges to say, reboot the host or perform operations that
can disrupt the host or other containers running on the same host.
If you wish to override this behavior and provide additional privileges than what is available, use
the cap add option in the docker run command.
Similarly, you can drop privileges as well using the cap drop option or in case you wish to run the
container with all privileges enabled, use the privileged flag.
Well that's it on Docker Security for now.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Security Contexts ---

As we saw in the previous lecture, when you run a Docker container, you have the option to define
a set of security standards, such as the ID of the user used to run the container, the Linux capabilities
that can be added or removed from the container, etc. these can be configured in Kubernetes as well
as you know already in Kubernetes.
Containers are encapsulated in pods.
You may choose to configure the security settings at a container level or at a pod level.
If you configure it at a pod level, the settings will carry over to all the containers within the pod.
If you configure it at both the pod and the container, the settings on the container will override
the settings on the pod.
Let us start with a pod definition file.
This pod runs an ubuntu image with the sleep command to configure security context on the container.
Add a field called Security Context under the specs section of the pod.
Use the run as user option to set the user ID for the pod.
To set the same configuration on the container level.
Move the whole section under the container specification like this.
To add capabilities.
Use the capabilities option and specify a list of capabilities to add to the pod.
Well, that's all on security contexts in Kubernetes.
Head over to the Coding Exercises section and practice viewing, configuring, and troubleshooting issues
related to security contexts in Kubernetes.
That's it for now and I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Lab - Security Contexts ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Security Contexts ---

Narrator: So for the first question is asking
is what is the user use to execute the sleep process
within the ubuntu-sleeper pod?
So if you ever wanna see, you know,
what user you're logged into as on a Linux machine,
you can run the command, whoamI?
So all we need to do is run that command
inside the container, inside the container.
So we'll do Kubectl get pods.
We can see the Pod Ubuntu-Sleeper,
so I'll do Kubectl exec ubuntu-sleeper
and then we'll do the two dashes,
and now we enter in the command we wanna run.
So we just do whoamI.
And I forgot an E right here.
And we could see that the user that's used to execute
the sleep process is the root user, so we'll select root.
The next question is asking us
to edit the pod Ubuntu-sleeper to run the sleep process
with the user ID of 1010.
So to do this, I'm gonna first get the configuration
of the current pod
because it's saying only make the necessary changes.
So I'll do Kubectl get pod ubuntu-sleeper
and I'll do -o yaml and we'll pipe this out to a file.
And I realized I misspelled this.
And now we'll open up that file.
And so to change the user, we're gonna look for
a property called Security Context.
Okay, so here we'll go under security context
and we just have to add one line in.
And we just have to say runAsuser,
and then we provide the idea of the user,
which would be 1010.
So I will save the configuration.
Then I'm gonna do a Kubectl delete pod,
so I'm gonna delete the current pod.
I'll do a --force just so it deletes it
a little bit quicker
and then now we can apply the configuration
that we just created.
And I'm gonna do a Kubectl get pod just to make sure
that it's up and running and it's running,
so let's go ahead and run the validation,
and we can go to the next question.
The next question is saying a pod definition file
named Multi-pod.yaml is given.
With what user are the processes
in the web container started.
So this pod is created with multiple containers
and security context defined at the pod and container level.
Okay, so let's open up the multi-pod configuration
and we wanna find what is the user
for the process in the web container?
So if we take a look at the configuration, we can see
that the security context was set to run as user 1001
and this is at the pod level.
But within the container level, we could see, we overrid it
for the web container and we've set it to be 1002.
So this is going to be more specific
and it's gonna override the pod context.
So the answer's gonna be 1002.
Next question is asking us with what user are the processes
in the sidecar container started.
So in this case, we could see that there's no
container level security context configuration,
so it's going to default to the pod level security context,
so that's gonna be 1001.
The next question is asking us to update
the ubuntu-sleeper Pod to run as Root user
and with the SYS_TIME capability.
The next question is asking us to update
the ubuntu-sleeper Pod to run as Root user.
We're gonna change it back to the Root user
and add the SYS_TIME capabilities.
So I'm gonna open up the ubuntu-sleeper configuration file
and so first of all,
we're going to remove the securitycontext config
'cause we want to run it as the Root user now.
So I'll just delete those two lines.
Then we're gonna add the SYS_TIME capability.
So we're gonna go under the container
that we're interested in
and I'm just gonna go, it doesn't really matter where,
but I'll just go right here
and we'll add a security context line.
And then under here,
we're gonna pass in a property called add.
Oh, sorry, not add, capabilities.
And then under here, we're gonna add,
and this is going to take a list of different capabilities
and so we're just gonna add the SYS_TIME
and that should be everything we need.
So I'll save the configuration.
We'll then do a Kubectl delete pod.
And then we'll do an apply.
All right, so pod has now been created.
Let's go ahead and validate that
and looks like everything's good to go.
And the final question is asking us to update this pod
to make use of the NET_ADMIN capability.
So we could just go in, this is gonna be pretty simple
and under the add, we just add in the extra capability
that we want.
So I'll say NET_ADMIN, and that's all we have to do.
So we will delete this again.
And then we will apply it.
And we'll run the validation,
and that's going to wrap up this assignment.

--- Network Policy ---

So let us first get our networking and security basics right.
And I'm sorry if this is too basic, but I just wanted to spend a minute on this to make sure we're
all on the same page before we begin.
We will start with a simple example of a traffic flowing through a web app and database server.
So you have a web server serving front end to users and app server serving back end APIs and a database
server.
The user sends in a request to the web server at port 80.
The web server then sends a request to the API server at port 5000.
In the backend, the API server then fetches data from the database server at port 3306, and then sends
the data back to the user.
A very simple setup.
So there are two types of traffic here ingress and egress.
For example, for a web server, the incoming traffic from the users is an ingress traffic and the outgoing
request to the app server is egress traffic and that is denoted by the straight arrow.
When you define ingress and egress.
Remember you're only looking at the direction in which the traffic originated.
The response back to the user, denoted by the dotted lines, do not really matter.
Similarly, in case of the back end API server, it receives ingress traffic from the web server on
port 5000 and has egress traffic to port 3306 to the database server, and from the database servers
perspective, it receives ingress traffic on port 3306 from the API server.
If we were to list the rules required to get this working, we would have an ingress rule that is required
to accept HTTP traffic on port 80 on the web server, and egress rule to allow traffic from the web
server to port 5000 on the API server, and ingress rule to accept traffic on port 5000 on the API server,
and an egress rule to allow traffic to port 3306 on the database server.
And finally, an ingress rule on the database server to accept traffic on port 3306.
So that's the basic of traffic flow and rules.
Let us now look at network security in Kubernetes.
So we have a cluster with a set of nodes hosting a set of pods and services.
Each node has an IP address and so does each pod as well as service.
One of the prerequisites for networking in Kubernetes is whatever solution you implement, the pods
should be able to communicate with each other without having to configure any additional settings like
routes.
For example, in this network solution, all pods are on a virtual private network that spans across
the nodes in the Kubernetes cluster, and they can all by default reach each other using the IPS or
pod names or services Cells configured for that purpose.
Kubernetes is configured by default with an all allow rule that allows traffic from any pod to any other
pod or services within the cluster.
Let us now bring back our earlier discussion and see how it fits into Kubernetes.
For each component in the application, we deploy a pod one for the front end web server, for the API
server, and one for the database.
We create services to enable communication between the pods as well as to the end user, based on what
we discussed in the previous slide.
By default, all the three pods can communicate with each other within the Kubernetes cluster.
What if we do not want the front end web server to be able to communicate with the database server directly?
Say for example, your security teams and audits require you to prevent that from happening.
That is where you would implement a network policy to allow traffic to the DB server only from the API
server and network policy is another object in the Kubernetes namespace, just like pods, replica sets,
or services.
You link a network policy to one or more pods.
You can define rules within the network policy.
In this case, I would say only allow ingress traffic from the API pod on port 3306.
Once this policy is created, it blocks all other traffic to the pod and only allows traffic that matches
the specified rule.
Again, this is only applicable to the pod on which the network policy is applied.
So how do you apply or link a network policy to a pod?
We use the same technique that was used before to link replica sets or services to pods.
Labels and selectors.
We label the pod and use the same labels on the port selector field in the network policy.
And then we build our rule.
Under policy types specify whether the rule is to allow ingress or egress, traffic, or both.
In our case, we only want to allow ingress traffic to the DB pod.
So we add ingress.
Next we specify the ingress rule that allows traffic from the API pod, and you specify the API pod
again using labels and selectors.
And finally the port to allow traffic on which is 3306.
Let us put all that together.
We start with a blank object definition file.
And as usual we have API version kind metadata and spec.
The API version is networking.io v1.
The kind is network policy.
We will name the policy db dash policy.
And then under the spec section we will first move the pod selector to apply this policy to the DB pod.
Then we will move the rule we created in the previous slide under it.
And that's it.
We have our first network policy ready.
Run the cube control.
Create command to create the policy.
Remember that network policies are enforced by the network solution implemented on Kubernetes cluster.
And not all network solutions support network policies.
A few of them that are supported are cube, router, calico, Romana, and WaveNet.
If you used flannel as the networking solution, it does not support network policies as of this recording.
Always refer to the Network Solutions documentation to see support for network policies.
Also remember, even in a cluster configured with a solution that does not support network policies,
you can still create the policies, but they will just not be enforced.
You will not get an error message saying the network solution does not support network policies.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Walk through the documentation and head over to the Coding Challenges to Practice network policies.

--- Developing network policies ---

In this lecture, we will take a look at network policies in more detail.
So here we have the same web API and database pods that we discussed about in the previous lecture.
So first let's be very clear with our requirements.
Our goal is to protect the database pod so that it does not allow access from any other pod except the
API pod, and only on port 3306.
So let's assume that we are not concerned about the web pod or the API pod for those pods.
We are okay for all traffic to go in and out from anywhere.
However, we want to protect the database pod and only allow traffic from the API pod.
So let's get the other things out of our way so we can focus exactly on the required tasks.
So we don't need to worry about the web pod or its port, as we don't want to allow any traffic from
any other sources other than the EPA poured, so let's get rid of that.
We can also forget about the port on the API pod to which the web server connects, as we don't care
about that either.
As we discussed, by default, Kubernetes allows all traffic from all pods to all destinations.
So as the first step, we want to block out everything going in and out of the database pod.
So we create a network policy.
We will call it DB policy.
And the first step is to associate this network policy with the pod that we want to protect.
And we do that using labels and selectors.
So we do that by adding a pod selector field with the match labels option and by specifying the label
on the DB pod, which happens to be set to roll DB.
And that associates the network policy with the database pod and blocks out all traffic.
However, we need the API pod to be able to query the database on port 3006.
So that's what we are going to configure next.
First, we need to figure out what type of policies should be defined on this network policy object
to meet our requirements.
So there are two types of policies that we discussed in the previous lecture.
We have ingress and egress.
So do we need ingress or egress here or both.
So you always look at this from the DB pod's perspective.
From the DB pod's perspective, we want to allow incoming traffic from the API pod.
So that is incoming.
So that is ingress.
The API pod makes database queries and the database pods returns the results.
So what about the results?
Do you need a separate rule for the results to go back to the API pod?
No, because once you allow incoming traffic, the response or reply to that traffic is allowed back
automatically.
We don't need a separate rule for that.
So in this case, all we need is an ingress rule to allow traffic from the API pod to the database pod,
and that would allow the API pod to connect to the database and run queries, and also retrieve the
result of the queries.
So when deciding on what type of rule is to be created, you only need to be concerned about the direction
in which the request originates and which is denoted by the straight line here.
And you don't need to worry about the response, which is denoted by a solid line here.
So a single network policy can have an ingress type of rule, an egress type of rule, or both.
In cases where a pod wants to allow incoming connections as well as wants to make external calls.
So for now, our use case only requires ingress.
Policy types.
Now that we have decided on the type of policy.
The next step is to define the specifics of that policy.
If it's ingress, we create a section called ingress.
Within which we can specify multiple rules.
Each rule has a from and ports fields.
The from field defines the source of traffic that is allowed to pass through to the database port.
And here we would use a port selector and provide the labels of the API pod like this.
The ports field defines what port on the database pod is the traffic allowed to go to?
In this case it's 3306 with the TCP protocol.
And that's it.
This would create a policy that would block all traffic to the DB pod, except for traffic from the
API pod.
Now, what if there are multiple API pods in the cluster with the same labels, but in different namespaces.
So say here we have different namespaces for dev test and prod environments.
And we have the API pod with the same labels in each of these environments.
The current policy would allow any pod in any namespace with matching labels to reach the database pod.
We only want to allow the API pod in the prod namespace to reach the database pod.
So how do we do that?
For this, we add a new selector called as the namespace selector property along with the pod selector
property.
Under this, we use match labels again to provide a label set on the namespace.
And you must remember that you must have this label set on namespace first for this to work.
So that's what the namespace selector does.
It helps in defining from what namespace traffic is allowed to reach the database pod.
Now what if you only have the namespace selector and not the pod selector like this.
In this case, all pods within the specified namespace will be allowed to reach the database pod, such
as the web pod that we had earlier.
But pods from outside this namespace won't be allowed to go through.
Let's look at another use case.
Say we have a backup server somewhere outside of the Kubernetes cluster, and we want to allow the server
to connect to the database pod.
Now, since this backup server is not deployed in our Kubernetes cluster, the pod selector and namespace
selector fields that we use to define traffic from won't work because it's not a pod in the cluster.
However, we know the IP address of the backup server, and that happens to be 192.168.5.1.
We could configure a network policy to allow traffic originating from certain IP addresses.
For this, we add a new type of from definition known as the IP block definition.
IP block allows you to specify a range of IP addresses from which you could allow traffic to hit the
database pod.
So those are three supported selectors under the from section in ingress.
And these are also applicable to the two section in egress.
And we'll see that in a few minutes.
We have pod selector to select pods by labels.
We have namespace selector to select namespaces by labels.
And we have the IP block selector to select IP address ranges.
These can be passed in separately as individual roles or together as part of a single rule.
In this example, under the from section we have two elements.
So these are two rules.
The first rule has the pod selector and the namespace selector together, and the second rule has the
IP block selector.
So this works like an Or operation.
Traffic from sources meeting either of these criteria are allowed to pass through.
However, within the first rule we have two selectors.
Part of it that would mean traffic from sources must meet both of these criteria to pass through.
So they have to be originating from ports with matching labels of API pod.
And those pods must be in the prod namespace so it works like an and operation.
Now what if we were to separate them by adding a dash before the namespace selector like this.
Now they are two separate rules.
So this would mean that traffic matching the first rule is allowed.
That is, from any pod matching the label API pod in the same namespace and traffic matching.
The second rule is allowed, which is from any pod within the prod namespace that is, either from the
pod web and of course, along with the backup server, as we have the IP block specification as well.
So now we have three separate rules, and almost traffic from anywhere is allowed to the DB pod.
So a small change like that can have a big impact.
So it's important to understand how you could put together these rules based on your requirements.
So now let's get rid of all of that and go back to a basic set of rules.
And we'll now look at egress.
So say for example instead of the backup server initiating a backup, say we have an agent on the DB
pod that pushes backup to the backup server.
In that case, the traffic is originating from the database pod to an external backup server.
For this, we need to have egress rule defined.
So we first add egress to the policy types.
And then we add a new egress section to define the specifics of the policy.
So instead of a from we now have two under egress.
So that's the only difference.
Under two we could use any of the selectors such as a pod, a namespace or an IP block selector.
And in this case, since the database server is external, we use IP block selector and provide the
Cidr block for the server.
The port to which the requests are to be sent to is 80.
So we specify 80 as the port.
So this rule allows traffic originating from the database port to an external backup server at the specified
address.
Well that's it for now.
About network policies and rules.
Head over to the lab and practice working with network policies yourself.
I will see you in the next one.

--- Lab - Network Policy ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Network Policies (optional) ---

-: In this video, we'll go over
the practice test on network policies.
So, how many network policies do you see in the environment?
So we've deployed a few web applications,
services, and network policies.
that inspect the environment, so let's take a look.
Seems to be an image, so,
we do not have the alias set, the alias.
Okay, let's first check out the pod.
So we have four pods.
So you have the external, internal
the MySQL, and payroll pod.
So we have the external, we have the internal pod
we have the payroll pod and the DB pod
which is the MySQL pod.
And let's check out the services
you have the DB service, the external service,
internal service and the Kubernetes service.
So these are, sorry, the payroll service.
So these are the the services.
So each one, each of them are on different ports.
So you have 8080 for the payroll service.
The external and internal service are both on 8080.
Then you have the DB service, which is on 3306.
These are the port numbers.
And the question is to identify the network policies
in the environment.
So we could do a get, kubectl get network policies.
So you have the payroll policy.
You could also do, kubectl get net poll.
So that's the short form for network policy.
So we'll stick to this going forward.
So there is one policy and that's called as
"The Payroll Policy".
So there's one policy in total.
So what is the name of the network policy?
That is Payroll Policy.
Okay, so which part is the network policy applied on?
So if you look at this
you have a pod selector and it says, "Name Equals Payroll".
So the, the name of the pod is Payroll.
And so the pod name is Payroll.
So the network policy named "Payroll Policy" is
applied on the pod, which is called a "Payroll".
So that's this pod.
So if you look at the image
we have now identified that this is kind of how it looks.
So you have the external port, internal port, DB port
and then you have the, the payroll port
and then network policies applied on the payroll port.
Now as we learned from the lectures, by default
all ports allow traffic
both ingress and egress on all the ports.
So there are no restrictions
but as soon as you apply a network policy,
it's kind of blocked.
So everything gets blocked
then you have to manually allow stuff.
So let's try and answer this question.
So what type of traffic
is the network policy configured to handle?
So let's look at the network policy in more details.
So let's do a kubectl describe
net poll Payroll Policy.
And we see that, we see the pod selector, which we know
and it's allowing ingress traffic to port 8080
from the pod.
And it says not affecting egress traffic.
So there are no rules for egress traffic.
That means all egress traffic
from this pod to external to outside world is, is allowed.
And the only thing that's allowed is ingress traffic.
So what type of traffic is the network policy
configured to handle, is just ingress.
Okay, now what is the impact
of the rule configured on this network policy?
So looking at this, we know that
it allows ingress traffic to port 8080.
So this is with the
to the port within the, within the pod,
from, we have a pod selector and the name is internal.
So this rule allows ingress traffic to port 8080
on the payroll pod from the internal pod.
So this is basically what is allowed.
So traffic to and from payroll part is blocked,
now not entirely true because we know that there is one,
one route of traffic that is allowed,
traffic from internal to payroll pod is blocked
traffic to and from the internal pod is blocked.
Traffic from internal to payroll pod is allowed.
So traffic from internal to payroll pod is allowed.
So that's the correct answer.
Now what is the impact
of the rule configured on this network policy?
So in other words, external pod can ping payroll pod
so external pod and ping payroll pod, that's not correct.
External pod can't do anything.
The internal pod can ping payroll pod,
the internal pod cannot ping the payroll pod
because we have not,
we have only allowed TCP, the TCP rule.
So that's not gonna be allowed.
External port can access port 8080.
That's not true because we have not configured
anything for the external pod.
The internal pod can access port 8080 on payroll pod.
So that's allowed, so that, that's the correct answer.
Now access the UI of these applications
using the link given about the terminal?
Okay, so if you look at this
you have the external portal and the internal portal.
So let's open those up.
Okay, so this is the internal facing application
the one, the book background
and this is the external facing application.
Okay? So access the UI of these applications using the link
can load this, we have just done that.
Now, perform a connectivity test using the user interface
in these applications to access the payroll service
on, at port 8080.
So we're gonna try and see, we've said this in your policy
but we're just gonna see it for real.
So from the external port and the internal port
we're gonna ping, or we're gonna access,
try and access this payroll pod on port 8080.
So the service to access a payroll port is
a payroll service.
So we're gonna copy this
and from the internal facing application
we're gonna try to do a test.
And that is successful,
from the external facing application
we're gonna do a test and that's timed out.
So this is working as expected.
The answer here is
both internal and external applications can,
can access payroll, do, no, so that's not correct.
Only internal application can access the payroll service.
Okay, now perform a connectivity test using the
user interface on the terminal application to
access the external service at port 80.
So we, we wanna see if, so we've,
we have identified that this is how it is.
Internal port can access a payroll port
and external port cannot access a payroll port.
Now let's see if the internal port can access
the external port.
So external service at port 8080
this is the internal application and try and
access the external application at port 8080.
And that is success.
So that is allowed.
So let's select successful.
Now finally, we have to create a network policy to
allow traffic from the internal application only
to the payroll service and DB service.
See this is the internal application,
we wanna block its access to everything else
except for the payroll service
and the database service, right?
So this is what we want to achieve.
So basically this is what we want to create.
Use the spec que and below.
So we have to create an Azure policy
named "Internal Policy".
And that is this.
And we have to,
for, so after creating the policy
we need to associate it with the internal pod.
So that's the, that's the pod specification.
Like the pod selector should be for the internal pod.
And then the policy is egress.
So we we're gonna configure egress traffic.
So we're gonna block everything except
for the egress traffic to both of these.
And then there should be two rules.
One is to the payroll pod and the other is to the DB pod
which is the MySQL pod as shown here.
So let's try and do that.
So first let's go to the Kubernetes documentation pages
and look for network policies
and let's get a template to start with.
So we're going to get until here.
So let's create a file called "internalpolicy.YMAL".
Okay, so the policy name.
So the policy name has to be "Internal policy".
Then you have the pod selectors.
So we basically wanna select this pod.
So that's going to be,
okay, and let's specify a name, "Internal".
Okay, and let's pick the egress rule.
So we want, we only want egress rule.
So have that here.
So we want to have, let's first define what we want.
So first we need a one rule
for this and another rule for this.
So we basically need two rules.
Let's add that here.
And so the first rule
is so we need to specify the pod selector.
So pod selector and match labels.
So we want to allow traffic to the pod payroll.
So we're gonna give it a name, "Payroll".
And we also wanna specify boards.
So we wanna allow protocol TCP to board.
So to payroll its a 8080, okay.
So that's the first rule.
Same way we're gonna have for the second rule,
we need to specify
to which pod as well as to which port, right?
So let's just check it here.
So it should be
so each one will have a two and, and port, ports.
So it's actually ports.
I'm gonna fix that.
Okay, and within this we're gonna have pod selector
then we're gonna have match labels,
and then we have MySQL.
So that's the second pod.
And then we're gonna have ports.
Then we specify the protocol, which happens to be TCP.
And the port for SQL is 3306, as you can see here.
Okay, so this particular policy,
so we're gonna remove ingress from here.
So what this does is it creates a policy for the internal,
it creates an internal policy
for the internal pod using this label.
So everything has a, has a label with the name on it.
And then we have, we're allowing egress
to the payroll pod on port 8080.
And then on the MySQL pod on port 3306.
Now let's create that policy.
Okay, let's do a describe internal policy
and we'll verify the pod selector
and egress traffic configuration.
So we have 8080 to payroll
and 3306 to MySQL is configured.
You'll have egress policies configured.
Let's check it out.
Okay, so that's, that's about it.
And that's the end of this lab.

--- Kubectx and Kubens - Command Line Utilities ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates)Custorm Resource Definition (CRD) ---

Let's look at custom resource definitions in Kubernetes.
Before we talk about custom resources, let's first talk about resources.
So here's a deployment definition file.
And when we create a deployment Kubernetes creates a deployment and stores its information in the etcd
data store.
Now we can create this deployment and then list the deployments and see the status.
And we can run the delete command to delete the deployment.
Now all of this is simply going to create list and modify the deployment object or resource in the etcd
data store.
But we know that when we create deployments it creates pods equal to the number of replicas defined
in the deployment, in this case three.
So who or what is responsible for that?
And that's the job of a controller in this case the deployment controller.
Now we don't have to create a controller because the deployment controller is built in to the Kubernetes
and is already available.
So the controller is a process that runs in the background, and its job is to continuously monitor
the status of resources that it's supposed to manage, in this case, the deployment that we created.
And when we create, update or delete the deployment, it makes the necessary changes on the cluster
to match what we have done.
In this case, when we create a deployment object, the controller creates a replica set, which in
turn creates as many pods as we have specified in the deployment definition file.
So that's the job of a controller.
And here is how it looks in code.
So the deployment controller is written in go and is part of the Kubernetes source code.
You don't have to understand go or understand this code.
For now I'm just showing this so you can see what a controller actually looks like.
Okay.
Now we've learned about many resources throughout this course, such as replica sets, deployments,
jobs, cronjobs, stateful sets, namespaces, etc. these are just a few of the many resources available
on the cluster, and these have controllers that are responsible for watching the status of these objects
and making the necessary changes on the cluster to maintain the state as expected.
Now let's do something fun.
Let's just like how we created the deployment to deploy multiple pods in a cluster.
We would like to create, say, a flight ticket object to book a flight ticket.
I'm just picking this use case to show that this could be really anything like literally anything.
And later, towards the end of the video or end of this section, we will see some real life use cases.
Let's stick with this for now.
And first we're going to see what we want and later we will see how to achieve it.
So what I want to do is create an object called flight ticket.
We will say the API version is flights.com/v1.
The kind is flight ticket.
We will name it my flight ticket.
The spec section will have some properties required to book the ticket, such as from airport which
we will set to Mumbai, and the two address which we will set to London, and also another property
called number to specify the number of tickets that I want to book.
And that is two.
Now when I create this object I want to have a flight ticket resource created.
And when I list all flight tickets I want all flight tickets to be listed.
And when I delete a flight ticket, I want the flight ticket booking to be deleted.
Now how we're going to do this?
I'll explain in a bit.
For now, we're just discussing the what what what do we want?
So this is going to create or delete the flight ticket object in the etcd data store.
But it's not actually going to book a flight ticket.
Is it?
We want this to actually go out and book a flight ticket for real.
Say, for instance, there is this, uh, API available at, say, book flight com slash API that we
can call to book a flight ticket.
So how do we call this API whenever we create a flight ticket object to book a flight ticket.
So for that we're going to need a controller.
So we will create a flight ticket controller.
And it's written in go.
And we will watch for the creation, update or deletion of the flight ticket resource.
And when we create a resource it will contact the book Flight Ticket API to book a flight ticket.
And when we delete the resource, it would make an API call to delete that booking.
And it might look something like this in code.
So that's how it works at a high level.
The flight ticket object that we created It is a custom resource, and the controller that we wrote
to book the actual flight ticket by calling the API that is called as a custom controller.
We have a custom resource and we have a custom controller.
Now let's see how we are going to achieve this.
If you tried to create a flight ticket resource now on your Kubernetes cluster, you will see that it
fails with the error message that says there is.
There are no matches for the kind flight ticket in version flights.com/v1.
Now this is because you can't simply create any resource that you want without configuring it in the
Kubernetes API, without first telling Kubernetes that it should allow us to create a flight ticket
object.
So that's what we have to do.
First, we have to first define what that resource is that we want to create.
So But for that we need what is known as a custom resource definition or CRD.
We're going to use CRD to tell Kubernetes that we would like to create objects of kind flight ticket
going forward.
So the CRD is a similar object with API version kind metadata and spec.
The API version is API extensions.
Dot case.io/v1.
Kind is custom resource definition.
Metadata has name set to flight tickets, dot flights.com, let's say.
And under the spec section we will specify a scope.
Now scope defines if the object is namespaced or not.
And we know that there are Namespaced and non namespaced scopes in Kubernetes for example, pods, replica
sets, deployments are all scoped, whereas persistent volumes, nodes and namespace itself are non
Unknown non scoped objects.
So here we can define if this object is going to be namespace scoped or not.
We will set it to names namespace for now.
Then we define groups.
Groups is the API group that we provide in the API version.
It will be flights.com.
And then we specify the names of the resource.
We define the kind which is the kind that we use in the flight ticket definition file.
And we will set it to flight ticket.
And we must also specify a singular and plural versions of names.
So the singular name here is just the flight ticket, which is used to display the resource type in
the output of the kubectl commands.
The plural is what is used by the Kubernetes API resource.
And if you run the Kubernetes, the kubectl API resources command.
This is what is going to be shown here in the plural format.
So it's flight tickets there.
And of course you can provide a short version of the name.
Let's say feet.
This way we can just refer to the resource as feet.
When we run the kubectl commands.
Next we have versions.
Each resource can be configured with multiple versions as it passes through the various phases of its
lifecycle.
For example, if it's a new resource type then we're going to introduce it.
Then we start at alpha or beta versions before making its way to version v1.
This is something that we discussed in the API versions lecture earlier in this course.
Let's name it version v1 for now.
And with multiple versions configured for the same resource, we must choose which ones are served through
the API server.
And we also define which is the storage version.
If you have multiple versions, only one version can be marked as the storage version.
We discussed about what are storage versions in the lecture about APIs earlier in this course.
Next we specify a schema.
The schema defines all the parameters that can be specified under the spec section.
When you create the object, it defines what fields are supported and what type of value that fields
supports, etc..
The schema uses OpenAPI v3 schema version.
We specify the different properties using an object type we have from to and number and from and to.
Our string number is an integer.
We can also specify validations like the minimum or maximum value that can be specified under the number.
If the value is entered by the user does not fall within this range, the resource will not be created
and will return an error message.
We can now create the custom resource definition by running the kubectl create command, and once the
custom resource definition is created, you can now create the flight ticket object and then get or
delete it.
So that solves the first part of our problem.
Being able to create any kind of object type that we want on Kubernetes, you can use custom resource
definitions or crds to create any kind of resource you want.
On Kubernetes and specify a schema and add validations.
But it's only going to allow you to create these resources and store them in etcd.
It's not actually going to do anything about these resources because we don't yet have a controller
for it.
And that's what we will look at next.
The second part is building a custom controller that can handle these resources, that can watch when
these resources are created, and perform actions based on the resource specifications you see without
a controller.
The custom resource that we created is just going to sit there.
It's just data stored locally in our data stores and does not actually do anything.
So in the upcoming video, we will see how to get started with creating such a controller.

--- (2025 Updates) Lab - Custom Resource Definition ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates) Custom Controllers ---

In this lecture we will look at developing custom controllers.
So to pick up from where we left off, we have created a custom resource definition.
And we are able to create our flight ticket objects.
And the data about the ticket is stored in etcd.
Now what we need to do is monitor the status of the objects in etcd and perform actions such as making
calls to the flight booking API to book, edit, or cancel flight tickets.
And that's why we need a custom controller.
So a controller is any process or code that runs in a loop and is continuously monitoring the Kubernetes
cluster and listening to events of specific objects being changed, in this case, the flight ticket
object.
And now we could do that in any way we can.
Of course you need to write some code.
So say I know Python well, so I could write a code in Python that would query the Kubernetes API server
for objects in the Kubernetes API.
And then I could watch for changes and make a further call to the API to make changes to the system.
However, developing a controller in Python may be challenging as the calls made to the APIs may become
expensive and we will need to create our own queuing and caching mechanisms.
Developing in go with the Kubernetes Go client provides support for other libraries like shared informers,
that provide caching and queuing mechanisms that can help build controllers easily and in the right
way.
So how do you start building a custom controller?
So there's a GitHub repo named Sample controller.
So first clone this repo and then we modify the controller.
Go with your custom code.
Then we build and run it.
So make sure you have the go programming language installed on your machine.
Install it if it is.
Um, if it isn't already installed.
And then clone the GitHub repo of the sample controller.
We then CD into the sample controller directory, and then we customize the controller dot go with our
custom logic.
And we're not going to get into the details about the code itself at this point.
Um, we would probably go over it at some other time where we will focus on advanced topics that that
would be that would include like building controllers and operators.
For now, let's just assume that we've customized the controller Go code.
And somewhere within the code, we're making a call to the flight booking API and to book flight tickets.
And then once we do that, we then build the code and then we run it.
And when we run it, we specify the kubeconfig file that the controller can use to authenticate to the
Kubernetes API, and then the control process starts locally, and it then watches for the creation
of the flight ticket objects and make the makes the necessary calls.
Once your controller is ready, you can decide on how to distribute it.
Now you don't want to build and run it each time, so you may package the custom controller in a Docker
image and then choose to run it inside your Kubernetes cluster as a pod or a deployment.
That's a high level overview of building a custom controller.
Now, in the exam, I don't expect them to ask a question about building a custom controller as it requires
more coding knowledge.
So I don't anticipate a question on this.
However, there may be questions to build custom resource definitions and work with custom resource
definition files, or to to work with existing controllers that are already there.
So it's good to know.
All right.
So that's that's all for now.
And in the next video we will talk about operators.

--- (2025 Updates) Operator Framework ---

Let's now look at the operator framework.
So we've talked about creating a custom resource definition or CRD and a custom controller that has
the logic to work with that CRD.
And currently these are separate entities.
And we have to manually create the CRD and the resources using the CRD.
And then we deploy the controller as a pod or a deployment.
However, these two entities can be packaged together to be deployed as a single entity using the operator
framework.
So by deploying the flight operator, it internally creates the custom resource definition and the resources,
and also deploys the custom controller as a deployment.
Now the operator framework does much more than just deploying these two components.
But let's look at a real life use case of an operator.
And one of the most popular operator is the etcd operator.
It is used to deploy and manage an etcd cluster within Kubernetes.
So it has an etcd cluster, CRD, and a custom controller that watches for the etcd cluster resource
and deploys etcd within the Kubernetes cluster.
However, it can do much more, such as take a backup of etcd cluster, as well as restore a backup
to the etcd cluster by simply creating a CRD.
There are additional code in the operator named Backup and restore operators that are responsible for
performing these additional tasks.
So Kubernetes operators do what a human operator typically would do to manage a specific application,
such as installing it, maintaining it by taking backups, and restoring backups in case of disasters,
uh, fixing any issues that may come across the application, etc..
All operators are available at the operator hub.
You can find operators for many of the popular applications like etcd, MySQL, Prometheus.
Grafana.
Argo CD.
Istio.
Select any operator to view additional details and the installation instructions are available on clicking
the install button.
Deploying an application is as easy as following the three steps.
That's first, installing the Operator Lifecycle manager and then installing the operator itself.
And that's about it.
That's a high level overview of operators.
Now diving deep into operators require its own mini course.
And we will have that at some point in the future.
For now I do not anticipate any questions on operators itself in the exam.
Um, I think uh, the curriculum mentions mostly about crds.
So this lecture on operators is just an add on, right?
So thank you so much.
And, um, I'll see you in the next one.

