--- Storage - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello and welcome to this section
on storage in Kubernetes.
This is Mumshad Mannambeth, and we are going through
the Certified Kubernetes Administrators course.
In this section, we look at
the various storage related concepts,
such as persistent volumes, persistent volume claims,
access modes, and how to configure applications
with persistent storage.
There are so many different storage options out there.
And depending on your environment, the options may vary.
However, looking at all of those options
is out of scope for this course.
In this course, our focus
is on the Kubernetes side of storage.
Once you get that,
you should be able to relate that knowledge
to implement any third party storage solutions out there.
So let's get started.

--- Docker Storage - Introduction ---

Let us now look at storage in Kubernetes to understand storage in container orchestration tools like
Kubernetes.
It is important to first understand how storage works with containers.
Understanding how storage works with Docker first and getting all the basics right will later make it
so much easier to understand how it works in Kubernetes.
When it comes to storage in Docker, there are two concepts you must know about storage drivers and
volume driver plugins.
In the upcoming video, we will discuss about storage drivers.
It's something that we've discussed in the Docker course, so if you have gone through that already,
feel free to skip this video or you may choose to stay and refresh your memory.
Once done, we will talk about volume drivers.

--- Storage in Docker ---

In this lecture we are going to talk about Docker storage drivers and file systems.
We're going to see where and how Docker stores data and how it manages file systems of the containers.
Let us start with how Docker stores data on the local file system.
When you install Docker on a system, it creates this folder structure.
At var lib docker you have multiple folders under it called aufs, containers, image volumes, etc.
this is where Docker stores all its data by default.
When I say data, I mean files related to images and containers running on the Docker host.
For example, all files related to containers are stored under the containers folder, and the files
related to images are stored under the image folder.
Any volumes created by the Docker containers are created under the volumes folder.
Well, don't worry about that for now.
We will come back to that in a bit.
For now, let's just understand where Docker stores its files and in what format.
So how exactly does Docker store the files of an image and a container?
To understand that, we need to understand Dockers layered architecture.
Let's quickly recap something we learned when Docker builds images, it builds these in a layered architecture.
Each line of instruction in the Docker file creates a new layer in the Docker image, with just the
changes from the previous layer.
For example, the first layer is a base ubuntu distribution, followed by the second instruction that
creates a second layer which installs all the apt packages, and then the third instruction creates
a third layer, which with the Python packages, followed by the fourth layer that copies the source
code over, and then finally the fifth layer that updates the entry point of the image.
Since each layer only stores the changes from the previous layer, it is reflected in the size as well.
If you look at the base ubuntu image, it is around 120MB in size.
The APT packages that are installed is around 300 MB and then the remaining layers are small.
To understand the advantages of this layered architecture, let's consider a second application.
This application has a different Docker file, but is very similar to our first application.
As in, it uses the same base image as ubuntu.
Uses the same Python and Flask dependencies, but uses a different source code to create a different
application.
And so a different entry point as well.
When I run the docker build command to build a new image for this application, since the first three
layers of both the applications are the same, Docker is not going to build the first three layers.
Instead, it reuses the same three layers it built for the first application from the cache, and only
creates the last two layers with the new sources and the new entry point.
This way Docker builds images faster and efficiently saves disk space.
This is also applicable if you were to update your application code whenever you update your application
code, such as the app dot Pi.
In this case, Docker simply reuses all the previous layers from cache and rebuilds the application
image by updating the latest source code, thus saving us a lot of time during rebuilds and updates.
Let's rearrange the layers bottom up so we can understand it better.
At the bottom we have the base ubuntu layer, then the packages, then the dependencies, and then the
source code of the application and then the entry point.
All of these layers are created when we run the docker build command to form the final Docker image.
So all of these are the Docker image layers.
Once the build is complete, you cannot modify the contents of these layers.
And so they are read only.
And you can only modify them by initiating a new build.
When you run a container based off of this image using the docker run command, Docker creates a container
based off of these layers and creates a new writable layer on top of the image layer.
The writable layer is used to store data created by the container, such as log files written by the
applications.
Any temporary files generated by the container, or just any file modified by the user on that container.
The life of this layer, though, is only as long as the container is alive.
When the container is destroyed, this layer and all of the changes stored in it are also destroyed.
Remember that the same image layer is shared by all containers created using this image.
If I were to log in to the newly created container and say create a new file called temp dot txt, it
will create that file in the container layer which is read and write.
We just said that the files in the image layer are read only, meaning you cannot edit anything in those
layers.
Let's take an example of our application code.
Since we bake our code into the image, the code is part of the image layer and as such is read only
after running a container.
What if I wish to modify the source code to say, test a change?
Remember, the same image layer may be shared between multiple containers created from this image.
So does it mean that I cannot modify this file inside the container.
No, I can still modify this file, but before I save the modified file, Docker automatically creates
a copy of the file in the read write layer, and I will then be modifying a different version of the
file in the read write layer.
All future modifications will be done on this copy of the file in the read write layer.
This is called copy on write mechanism.
The image layer being read only just means that the files in these layers will not be modified in the
image itself.
So the image will remain the same all the time until you rebuild the image using the docker build command.
What happens when we get rid of the container?
All of the data that was stored in the container layer also gets deleted.
The change we made to the App.py and the new temp file we created will also get removed.
So what if we wish to persist this data.
For example, if we were working with a database and we would like to preserve the data created by the
container, we could add a persistent volume to the container.
To do this, first create a volume using the Docker volume create command.
So when I run the Docker volume create data underscore volume command, it creates a folder called data
underscore volume under the var lib docker volumes directory.
Then when I run the docker container using the docker run command, I could mount this volume inside
the Docker containers rewrite layer using the dash v option like this.
So I would do a docker run dash v, then specify my newly created volume name, followed by a colon
and the location inside my container, which is the default location where MySQL stores data.
And that is var lib MySQL.
And then the image name MySQL.
This will create a new container and mount the data volume we created into var lib MySQL folder inside
the container.
So all data written by the database is in fact stored on the volume created on the docker host.
Even if the container is destroyed, the data is still active.
Now what if you didn't run the Docker volume?
Create command to create the volume before the docker run command.
For example, if I run the docker run command to create a new instance of MySQL container with the volume
data underscore volume two, which I have not created yet, Docker will automatically create a volume
named data, underscore volume two and mount it to the container.
You should be able to see all these volumes if you list the contents of the var lib docker volumes folder.
This is called volume mounting as we are mounting a volume created by Docker under the var lib docker
volumes folder.
But what if we had our data already at another location?
For example, let's say we have some external storage on the docker host at forward slash data, and
we would like to store database data on that volume and not in the default var lib docker volumes folder.
In that case we would run a container using the command docker run dash v, but in this case we will
provide the complete path to the folder we would like to mount that is forward slash data or slash MySQL.
And so it will create a container and mount the folder to the container.
This is called bind mounting.
So there are two types of mounts a volume mounting and a bind mount.
Volume mount mounts a volume from the volumes directory and bind mount mounts a directory from any location
on the docker host.
One final point to note before I let you go using the dash V is an old style.
The new way is to use dash mount option.
The dash dash mount is the preferred way, as it is more verbose, so you have to specify each parameter
in a key equals value format.
For example, the previous command can be written with the dash mount option as this using the type,
source and target options.
The type in this case is bind.
The source is the location on my host, and target is the location on my container.
So who is responsible for doing all of these operations?
Maintaining the layered architecture, creating a writable layer, moving files across layers to enable
copy and write, etc..
It's the storage drivers.
So Docker uses storage drivers to enable layered architecture.
Some of the common storage drivers are UFS btrfs, DFS Device Mapper, Overlay and Overlay.
Two.
The selection of the storage driver depends on the underlying OS being used.
For example, with ubuntu, the default storage driver is UFS, whereas the storage driver is not available
on other operating systems like fedora or CentOS.
In that case, Device Mapper may be a better option.
Docker will choose the best storage driver available automatically based on the operating system.
The different storage drivers also provide different performance and stability characteristics, so
you may want to choose one that fits the needs of your application and your organization.
If you would like to read more on any of these storage drivers, please refer to the links in the attached
documentation.
For now, that is all from the Docker architecture concepts.
See you in the next lecture.

--- Volume Driver Plugins in Docker ---

Okay, so in the previous lecture we discussed about storage drivers.
Storage drivers help manage storage on images and containers.
We also briefly touched upon volumes in the previous lecture.
We learned that if you want to persist storage, you must create volumes.
Remember that volumes are not handled by storage drivers.
Volumes are handled by volume driver plugins.
The default volume driver plugin is local.
The local volume plugin helps create a volume on the Docker host and store its data under the var lib
docker volumes directory.
There are many other volume driver plugins that allow you to create a volume on third party solutions
like Azure File Storage, convoy, DigitalOcean, Block Storage Locker, Google Compute Persistent Disks,
Glusterfs, NetApp X-ray Portworx, and VMware vSphere storage.
These are just a few of the many.
Some of these volume drivers support different storage providers.
For instance, X-ray storage driver can be used to provision storage on AWS, EBS, S3, EMC storage
arrays like Isilon and Scaleio, or Google Persistent Disk or OpenStack cinder.
When you run a Docker container, you can choose to use a specific volume driver, such as the X-ray
EBS, to provision a volume from Amazon EBS.
This will create a container and attach a volume from the AWS cloud.
When the container exits, your data is saved in the cloud.
In the upcoming lectures, we will see more about volumes in Kubernetes.

--- Container Storage Interface ---

Let us now look at the container storage interface.
In the past, Kubernetes used container D alone as the container runtime engine, and all the code to
work with container D was embedded within the Kubernetes source code, with other container runtimes
coming in, such as rocket and Cri-o.
It was important to open up and extend support to work with different container runtimes, and not be
dependent on the Kubernetes source code.
And that's how Container Runtime Interface came to be.
The container runtime interface is a standard that defines how an orchestration solution like Kubernetes
would communicate with container runtimes like Docker.
So in the future, if any new container runtime interface is developed, they can simply follow the
CRI standards, and that new container runtime would work with Kubernetes without really having to work
with Kubernetes team of developers, or touch the Kubernetes source code.
Similarly, as we saw in the networking lectures to extend support for different networking solutions,
the container networking interface was introduced now.
Any new networking vendors could simply develop their plugin based on the CNI standards and make their
solution work with Kubernetes.
And as you can guess, the container storage interface was developed to support multiple storage solutions
with CSI.
You can now write your own drivers for your own storage to work with.
Kubernetes.
Portworx.
Amazon EBS.
Azure disk.
Dell EMC Isilon Powermax.
Unity.
Xtremio NetApp.
Nutanix HPE Hitachi.
Pure Storage.
Everyone's got their own CSI drivers.
Note that CSI is not a Kubernetes specific standard.
It is meant to be a universal standard and if implemented, allows any container orchestration tool
to work with any storage vendor with a supported plugin.
Currently, Kubernetes, Cloud Foundry, and Mesos are on board with CSI.
So here's what the CSI kind of looks like.
It defines a set of rpcs, or remote procedure calls that will be called by the container orchestrator,
and these must be implemented by the storage drivers.
For example, CSI says that when a pod is created and requires a volume, the container orchestrator
in this case Kubernetes should call the create volume RPC and pass a set of details such as the volume
name.
The storage driver should implement this RPC and handle that request, and provision a new volume on
the storage array and return the results of the operation.
Similarly, container orchestrator should call the delete volume RPC when a volume is to be deleted,
and the storage driver should implement the code to decommission the volume from the array when that
call is made.
And the specification details exactly what parameters should be sent by the caller, what should be
received by the solution, and what error codes should be exchanged.
If you're interested, you can view all these details in the CSI specification on GitHub at this URL.
So that's about it for now.
About container storage interface.
I'll see you in the next lecture.

--- Volumes ---

Before we head into persistent volumes, let us start with volumes in Kubernetes.
Let us look at volumes in Docker first.
Docker containers are meant to be transient in nature, which means they are meant to last only for
a short period of time.
They are called upon when required to process data and destroyed once finished.
The same is true for the data within the container.
The data is destroyed along with the container.
To persist data processed by the containers, we attach a volume to the containers.
When they are created.
The data processed by the container is now placed in this volume, thereby retaining it permanently.
Even if the container is deleted, the data generated or processed by it remains.
So how does that work in the Kubernetes world?
Just as in Docker, the pods created in Kubernetes are transient in nature.
When a pod is created to process data and then deleted the data processed by it gets deleted as well.
For this, we attach a volume to the pod.
The data generated by the pod is now stored in the volume, and even after the pod is deleted, the
data remains.
Let's look at a simple implementation of volumes.
We have a single node Kubernetes cluster.
We create a simple pod that generates a random number between 1 and 100, and writes that to a file
at slash opt out.
It then gets deleted along with the random number.
To retain the number generated by the pod, we create a volume, and a volume needs a storage.
When you create a volume, you can choose to configure its storage in different ways.
We will look at the various options in a bit, but for now we will simply configure it to use a directory
on the host.
In this case, I specify a path forward slash data on the host.
This way any files created in the volume would be stored in the directory data on my node.
Once the volume is created to access it from a container, we mount the volume to a directory inside
the container.
We use the volume mounts field in each container to mount the data volume to the directory.
Slash opt within the container.
The random number will now be written to opt mount inside the container, which happens to be on the
data volume, which is in fact the data directory on the host.
When the pod gets deleted, the file with the random number still lives on the host.
Let's take a step back and look at the volume storage options.
We just used the host path option to configure a directory on the host as storage space for the volume.
Now that works fine on a single node.
However, it is not recommended for use in a multi node cluster.
This is because the pods would use the slash data directory on all the nodes and expect all of them
to be the same and have the same data.
Since they are on different servers, they are in fact not the same.
Unless you configure some kind of external replicated cluster storage solution.
Kubernetes supports several types of different storage solutions such as NFS cluster, NFS, Flocker,
Fibre Channel, Cephfs, Scaleio, or public cloud solutions like AWS, EBS, Azure Disk or File or
Google's Persistent Disk.
For example, to configure an AWS Elastic Block Store volume as the storage option for the volume,
we replace Hostpath field of the volume with the AWS Elastic Block Store field, along with the volume,
ID and filesystem type.
The volume storage will now be on AWS EBS.
Well, that's it about volumes in Kubernetes.
We will now head over to discuss persistent volumes.
Next.

--- Persistent Volumes ---

In the last lecture, we learned about volumes.
Now we will discuss persistent volumes in Kubernetes.
When we created volumes in the previous section, we configured volumes within the pod definition file.
So every configuration information required to configure storage for the volume goes within the pod
definition file.
Now when you have a large environment with a lot of users deploying a lot of pods, the users would
have to configure storage every time.
For each pod, whatever storage solution is used, the users who deploys the pods would have to configure
that on all pod definition files in his environment.
Every time a change is to be made, the user would have to make them on all of his pods.
Instead, you would like to manage storage more centrally.
You would like it to be configured in a way that an administrator can create a large pool of storage,
and then have users carve out pieces from it as required.
That is where persistent volumes can help us.
A persistent volume is a cluster wide pool of storage volumes configured by an administrator, to be
used by users deploying applications on the cluster.
The users can now select storage from this pool using persistent volume claims.
Let us now create a persistent volume.
We start with the base template and update the API version.
Set the kind to persistent volume and name it PV Vol one.
Under the specs section, specify the access modes.
Access mode defines how a volume should be mounted on the hosts, whether in a read only mode or read
write mode, etc. the supported values are read only.
Many read write once or read write.
Mini mode.
Next is the capacity.
Specify the amount of storage to be reserved for this persistent volume, which is set to one GB here.
Next comes the volume type.
We will start with the host path option that uses storage from the node's local directory.
Remember, this option is not to be used in a production environment.
To create the volume, run kube control, create command and to list the created volume from the kube
control.
Get persistent volume command.
Replace the host path option with one of the supported storage solutions.
As we saw in the previous lecture, like AWS Elastic Block Store, etc..
Well, that's it on persistent volumes in this lecture.
In the next lecture, we will look at how we use persistent volume claims to claim the volume configured
with persistent volumes.

--- Persistent Volume Claims ---

In the previous lecture, we created a persistent volume.
Now we will try to create a persistent volume claim to make storage available to a pod.
Persistent volumes and persistent volume claims are two separate objects in the Kubernetes namespace.
An administrator creates a set of persistent volumes, and a user creates persistent volume claims to
use the storage.
Once the persistent volume claims are created, Kubernetes binds the persistent volumes to claims based
on the request and properties set on the volume.
Every persistent volume claim is bound to a single persistent volume.
During the binding process, Kubernetes tries to find a persistent volume that has sufficient capacity
as requested by the claim and any other request.
Properties such as access modes, volume modes, storage class, etc. However, if there are multiple
possible matches for a single claim and you would like to specifically use a particular volume, you
could still use labels and selectors to bind to the right volumes.
Finally, note that a smaller claim may get bound to a larger volume if all the other criteria matches
and there are no better options.
There is a 1 to 1 relationship between claims and volumes, so no other claims can utilize the remaining
capacity in the volume.
If there are no volumes available, the persistent volume claim will remain in a pending state until
newer volumes are made available to the cluster.
Once newer volumes are available.
The claim would automatically be bound to the newly available volume.
Let us now create a persistent volume claim.
We start with a blank template.
Set the API version to v1 and kind to persistent volume claim.
We will name it my claim.
Under specification, set the access modes to read.
Write once and set resources to request the storage of 500MB.
Create the claim using cube control.
Create command to view the created claim.
Run the cube control.
Get persistent volume claim command.
We see the claim in a pending state.
When the claim is created, Kubernetes looks at the volume created.
Previously.
The access modes match.
The capacity requested is 500MB, but the volume is configured with one GB of storage.
Since there are no other volumes available, the persistent volume claim is bound to the persistent
volume.
When we run the Get volumes command again, we see the claim is bound to the persistent volume we created.
Perfect.
To delete a PVC we run the kubectl delete persistent volume claim command.
But what happens to the underlying persistent volume when the claim is deleted?
You can choose what is to happen to the volume.
By default, it is set to retain meaning the persistent volume will remain until it is manually deleted
by the administrator.
It is not available for reuse by any other claims.
Or it can be deleted automatically this way, as soon as the claim is deleted, the volume will be deleted
as well, or a third option is to recycle.
In this case, the data in the volume will be scrubbed before making it available to other claims.
However, note that this is an older option and is deprecated now because the Recycle controller originally
did a best effort wipe by launching a tiny recycler pod that mounted the volume and ran a shell command
like rm rf Scrub star to clear files.
It basically tried to do the admins manual cleanup for you with a simple file level delete.
But this isn't sufficient in practice.
It didn't guarantee secure erasure, didn't handle snapshots, or provide provider metadata, and only
worked for certain entry volume plugins on cloud or block backends like EBS, Google Cloud, Azure Disk,
or network storage like NFS or Sis drivers.
Proper cleanup can involve unmount, detach, file system, reformat, snapshot, retain policy handling,
encryption, key rotation, or provider level delete calls.
A plain rm rf leaves a inode metadata and may fail under permissions.
Because of these portability and security gaps, Kubernetes moved to a newer model.
The modern approach is dynamic provisioning with a storage class and CSI drivers, which we will discuss
next.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the labs and practice configuring and troubleshooting persistent volumes and volume claims
in Kubernetes.

--- Using PVCs in Pods ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Persistent Volume Claims ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Persistent Volumes and Persistent Volume Claims ---

-: Okay, so let's go through the lab
on persistent volumes and persistent volume claims.
So we have deployed a pod
inspect the pod and wait for it to start running.
So let's do that.
We have the web app pod and it's in running state.
The application stores logs
at location
log app dot log slash log slash app dot log.
So view the logs.
So for this we can do ...
so in order to view a file
within the pod, we'll do a cubicle exec
and... provide the pod name
and then the command.
So cat log app dot log.
Okay, so we're able to view the logs
and we see that it's it some
of the events that are logged by the application.
Now if the pod was to get deleted
now would you be able to view the logs?
So let's check out where those logs are.
So should I describe pod web app?
And... so there are no other volumes configured.
So you have the Q A P I access
which is the default volume, but there are no other volumes.
So anything that's stored in the log app dot log is stored
within the container within the pod.
So if the pod gets deleted
the logs get deleted as well, right?
So we're able to view the logs, now
we're not going to be able to view the logs
now configure a volume to store these logs
at this path on the host.
So currently all the logs are stored
at slash logs slash app dot log
within the pod or within the container.
Now we would like to store those.
We, we'd like to use a volume to store those logs
at wire log web app.
So that's wire log web app.... on the host.
So currently there's nothing here.
So let's, let's try and set up a volumes.
Okay, so we're going to edit the pod.
So we'll do a cubicle edit pod, web app.
And there are, there's a lot of information.
So here we have the volume amount
which is the default volume amount
for accessing the the Cube API server.
And below we have the volumes
which is again the default volume used for that.
So we're just gonna add our own volume here.
So ... we'll add...
we'll call the name
we'll call the volume log volume
because we're gonna use this to store the logs.
And this is going to be a host path.
And... the path is going to be...
whatever path is given here to wire log app.
Wire log app,
Okay, so we have the volume.
So basically what's happening, what's gonna happen is
when this pod is recreated is going to mount this directory
and we have to specify where it's gonna be mounted to.
It's gonna create a volume out of that directory.
And then we have to specify where it's going to mount it is
we're gonna add a volume mount
and we'll call... the mount path
as it is above.
And that would be a log.
And then we will have a name...
for the volume.
And the name of the volume is log volume.
Okay? So what's gonna happen is when the part is recreated
it's going to create a volume.
Which will store all data in this path on the host,
and it will be called this log volume.
And then we can mount this volume
within any container on this pod.
So here there's only one container.
So under volume mounts we have the mount path
we're gonna specify the name
of the volume and it's gonna mount that here.
So basically this is going to be mount
to this path within the container.
Okay? So...
let's try and save that
it's a pod, it's not gonna allow us to save that.
So we're gonna do a cubicle...
replace force,
Okay.
Support is now recreated.
So now let's check the path at wire log app, okay?
And we can see that the file
the storage logs called app dot log is in this path.
We're gonna do app dot log.
See the logs of the pod are indeed here.
So the, so the logs of the pod are now available on the host
at this particular path that indicates that that's working.
Okay? So the next task is to create a persistent volume
with the given specification.
Let's go to the coordinated documentation pages
and find persistent ... volume
and go to persistent volumes.
And...
so here we have a template for a pod,
persistent volume claim,
Persistent volume
but this doesn't have enough information.
So I'm just gonna keep looking.
Okay, so this is a persistent volume.
So I'm going to ...
get copy this much
and I'm gonna create a file called PV dot... yamo
for persistent volume.
Okay?
Then here we have PPV dash log
that's the persistent volume name.
Then we have storage.
So there's hundred
maybe bytes.
And then we have volume modes.
We don't need volume mode,
we have access mode.
The access mode is read,
write
many
and the persistent volume
reclaim policy going to be...
retained.
Okay? And then...
the type is going to be host path.
So we're gonna host path
and then... specify the path
and that's going to be... slash PV slash log.
So that's the path.
Okay,
so let's create the file.
Okay, so let's create it, let's check it out.
We have the PV law kind.
My capacity rewrite many.
So this indicates rewrite many.
And the reclaim policy is retained.
Let's check our work.
Okay?
Now let us claim some
of that storage for our application.
So create a persistent volume claim
with a given specification.
So let's find a persistent ...
volume claim template.
So we had one... here.
Yeah, so right here you have persistent volume claims
and we'll use this template.
So we don't need the advanced selectors.
Our use case is simple.
So we are just going to copy this much.
So let's do a PVC dot yamo
person volume claim.
The name is going to be claim dash log dash one
and access mode
is going to be
read write
once.
We don't have, we don't need a volume mode
and the storage is gonna be 50 mi.
Okay, now we're gonna do a create
minus f,
ac
let's check out the status.
Okay, so that's created.
So go next.
So what is the state of the precision volume claim?
So if you look at the state, it is in a pending state.
So that's that.
Now what is the state of the persistent volume?
The state of the persistent volume, it is...
available.
So let's check, try it now again.
So it's, it's in an available state.
So why is the claim not bound
to the available persistent volume?
So we have a persistent volume, which is
which has a hundred megabytes of capacity.
And then we have the PVC, which requested about 50
but it's still in a pending state.
So why is that?
So if you look at it
it's not a capacity mismatch because we know
that if when you create a persistent volume claim
if there's a volume that has higher capacity it is gonna
bind that volume to that precision volume claim.
So that's not the case here.
We have the reclaim policy set.
The name of these policy is the PV
and PVC does not really matter.
The only other thing that it looks
at is the access mode, right?
So if you look at the PV
that we created
it had an access mode of rewrite many, and if you look
at the PV PVC, it had rewrite,
it has rewrite once.
So we're going to, now that's the reason.
So access mode mismatch is the reason.
Now the next question is update the access mode
on the claim to bind it to the PV.
So we're going to, lets do an update
on the, on the claim.
So we wanna change it to, so we wanna change the access mode
on the PVC to rewrite many, which is on the, on the PV.
So that's what is requested here.
Okay,
so now
we're going to do a replace
force
dash F ...
PVC.
Okay, now you, you requested for 50 megabytes how
much capacity is now available to the PVC?
So let's look at that.
Let's do cubicle, get PV
Cubicle... get PVC.
Now if you look at the PVC
the capacity that it has is a hundred, a hundred megabytes.
Now update the web app part to use the persistent
volume claim as its storage.
So what we are gonna do now is we're gonna replace host path
with the persistent volume claim to
use the persistent volume claim.
Okay? So but before that we've created the PV to
store the logs
to use the host path at PV slash log.
So right now there is nothing in there.
So let's go ahead and edit the pod web app.
And what we're gonna do is, so this is, okay
the mount path, we're gonna leave it as is.
We're gonna go down
and we're gonna change
this... from host pad...
to persistent.
Let's see what that is.
So if you look here,
should be able to see how
to use a persistent volume in a pod.
So you have
claim as volumes.
So within volumes you have
you use persistent volume claims.
That's what we're looking for,
okay?
And
we have claim name,
so we don't need these lines.
And then the claim name is going to be
claim log one.
So you have versus volume claim, Claim name and ...
log one.
That should be it.
Let's replace the file.
Let's replace the pod forcefully.
Okay, so that is done.
Let's check our work.
All right, so now let's see
if you look at slash PV slash log,
you see the logs there
and you look at log app dot log can see
the logs of the application there.
So now the PV is using a host path
as ... um...
the location for storing data.
But then the PV is then claimed by the PVC
and then the PVC is configured as a volume for the pod.
And then that's how it is mounted to to the pod.
So that's, that's how this is working right now.
Okay, so the next question is what is the reclaim policy set
on the persistent volume PV dash log?
So let's see, you got, will get
PV PV dash log
and we can see that
it is retained.
So retain is the answer.
Now what would happen to the PV if the PVC was destroyed?
So we know that with the reclaim policy set to
retain, the PV is going to be...
retained.
So it's not going to be deleted along with the PVC.
So the PV is deleted as well.
Now the PV is made available again
now it's not made available.
Again, that would be recycling the PV scrub.
Now the PV is not deleted but not available.
So it's not deleted, but it's not available either.
So that's the status.
Now try deleting the PVC and notice what happens.
Let's do that.
Get PVC,
delete PVC
claim log one.
So let's wait for that to be deleted.
Okay, so
it's not going to get deleted
because it's actually going to be stockless.
Let's look at the status in a new terminal.
So let's do a go get PVC
and we see that it's in a terminating state
so it's stuck in a terminating state.
Let's do a describe
and ...
yeah,
so you see it's stuck
in a terminating state for the last 30 seconds or so.
So why is the PVC stuck in a terminating state?
So that's obviously because it is associated
as a volume with a pod.
So it is being used by a pod.
That's the reason it's, it's stuck in a terminating state.
Now let's now delete the web app pod
and let's go ahead and do that.
Do that.
So let's delete pod, web app and let's see what happens.
Okay, so that was deleted
and we see we're now unstuck and the PV was
deleted as well.
Check that out.
Yep. So the pod was deleted and the PV was
PVC was deleted as well.
So what is the state of the PVC now? It is deleted.
And what is state of the PV now let's try that.
We see that it is in a
released state.
Okay, So yeah, that's the end of this lab.

--- Application Configuration ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Additional Topics ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Storage Class ---

In this lecture we will look at storage classes.
In the previous lectures, we discussed about how to create PVS and then create PVCs to claim that storage
and then use the PVCs in the Pod definition files as volumes.
In this case, we create a PV from a Google Cloud Persistent disk.
The problem here is that before this PV is created, you must have created the disk on Google Cloud.
Every time an application requires storage, you have to first manually provision the disk on Google
Cloud and then manually create a persistent volume definition file using the same name as that of the
disk that you created.
That's called static provisioning volumes.
It would have been nice if the volume gets provisioned automatically when the application requires it.
And that's where storage classes come in.
With storage classes, you can define a provisioner, such as Google Storage, that can automatically
provision storage on Google Cloud and attach that to pods when a claim is made.
That's called dynamic provisioning of volumes.
You do that by creating a storage class object with the API version set to storage.
IO v1.
Specify a name and use provisioner as Kubernetes.io slash GCE.
So going back to our original state where we have a pod using a PVC for storage and the PVC is bound
to a PV, we now have a storage class.
So we no longer need the PVC definition because the PV and any associated storage is going to be created
automatically when the storage class is created for the PVC to use the storage class we defined, we
specify the storage class name in the PVC definition.
That's how the PVC knows which storage class to use.
Next time a PVC is created, the storage class associated with it uses the defined provisioner to provision
a new disk with the required size on GCP, and then creates a persistent volume and then binds the PVC
to that volume.
So remember that it still creates a PVC.
It's just that you don't have to manually create PVC anymore.
It's created automatically by the storage class.
We used the GCE provisioner to create a volume on GCP.
There are many other provisioners as well, such as for AWS, EBS, Azure File, Azure Disk, CIFs,
Portworx, Scaleio, and so on.
With each of these provisioners, you can pass in additional parameters such as the type of disk to
provision the replication type, etc. these parameters are very specific to the provisioner that you're
using for Google Persistent Disk.
You can specify the type which could be standard or SSD.
You can specify the replication mode which could be none or regional PD.
So you see you can create different storage classes, each using different types of disks.
For example, a silver storage class with the standard disks, a gold class with SSD drives, and a
platinum class with SSD drives and replication.
And that's why it's called storage class.
You can create different classes of service next time you create a PVC.
You can simply specify the class of storage you need for your volumes.

--- Lab - Storage Class ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Storage Class ---

-: Let us now review the lab on storage class.
So the first question is
how many storage classes exist in the cluster?
Let's do a queue code to get storage class.
So we see one, we can also do a SC
to the storage classes.
So that's the short form.
We see that there's just one storage class.
So let's select one.
How about now?
How many storage classes
exist in the cluster?
We just created a few more.
So let's try it again.
And we see that there are three
setting things up.
So what is the name of the storage class
that does not support dynamic volume provisioning?
So we know that the provisionary is what defines
how the storage class volumes are provisioned.
So the no provisioner is one that does not
support dynamic volume provisioning.
So that's the provisioner.
So that's the storage class that does
not support dynamic volume provisioning.
So that's local storage.
Now what is the volume binding mode
used for the storage class?
The one identified in the previous question.
So for this the volume binding mode
is wait for first consumer.
So this is the answer.
So what is the provisioner used for?
The storage class called WoodworksIO, priority high.
So this is the stories class called
WoodworksIO priority high
and provisioner is port works volume.
Now is there a persistent volume claim
that is consuming the persistent volume
called Local PV?
So is there a persistent volume claim?
So let's look at persistent volumes
and persistent volume claims.
And there are no persistent volume claims at all.
So no is the answer.
So create a persistent volume claim
by the name of local PVC that should bind
to the volume local PV.
So we need to create a PVC with the name local PVC.
And if it is to bind to the PV
they must have capacity, which is, yeah, 500 megabytes.
So that's correct.
And then the access modes should match.
So this is ReadWrite ones
and the storage class should also match;
so that's local storage.
So we're gonna create PVC.YAML
with all that information.
So let's go and find persistent volume.
Let's select persistent volume and let's look at PVC.
And here you have PVC.
So we'll copy until here.
We don't need the the selectors.
So let's paste that here.
So the name is local PVC.
The access mode, as we discuss it,
has to be rewrite once, which is fine.
We don't need to specify the volume mode for now.
And storage is 500 megabytes.
And the storage class name is local storage.
That's what we saw.
Right, so local storage.
So that's it.
Let's create the PVC.
Let's make sure it's created.
Okay.
Now what is the status of the newly created
persistent volume claim?
So it's in a pending state.
Now why is the PVC in a pending state
despite making a valid request
to claim the volume call local PV.
So we made sure that we got everything right
that 500 megabytes of capacity,
rewrite ones access model matching,
the local storage class is also matching.
So then why is it that it was not created?
So let's look at the events.
So let's do a queue code: describe PVC local PVC.
And here we see that the reason is
that it's waiting for first consumer,
waiting for the first consumer
to be created before binding.
So as we discussed, the wait for first consumer
means that it's not going to bind to a PV
if it's not used.
So it's just waiting for someone to use it
for a ideally a volume to use it.
Right, so a pod consuming the volume
is not scheduled person volume
and claim is match search class not found.
So this is the right answer.
So the storage class called local storage makes use
of volume binding mode set to wait for first consumer.
So this will delay the binding and provisioning of
of precision volume until a pod using the person
volume claim is created.
Create a new pod called EngineX
with the image X alpine.
Let's do that.
And the pod should make use of the PVC, local PVC
and mound the volume at the part were,
WWHGML, the local PV should be in a bound state.
So let's create a pod called EngineX
with the image EngineX alpine,
and then the portrait make use of the local PVC.
So for that we're going to have to convert this to ammo.
So we're gonna run it, we're gonna create the ammo file
redirect it to EngineX.
Start the ammo.
Okay, so we have all of this details in there.
Now what we need to do is we need to first
configure the volume and the volume amount, right?
So we need, we need the volume section
and the volume has to come from the local PVC.
So let's look at claims as volumes.
And here you have example of using a claim as volume.
So you have, you already have a volume section
so we just need this.
Okay, make sure to fix the format.
So we have volumes and the name is going to be,
let's name it as local PVC volume.
Okay? Now the claim name has to be local PVC.
Okay? And the next thing is we need the volume mount
which is inside the container.
So the volume is on the spec level at the pod
and the volume mount is inside the container.
So let's do that.
We have the volume mount and the volume mount
says you can see here is at (indistinct),
which is right.
And this, the name of the volume
is the name that we've given here.
It's gonna be this.
So if the question does not ask you
to use a specific name, you can use any name.
Just make sure that this name
and this name matches.
So that's when this volume is going to
get mount to this directory.
Okay, let's save that and let's create a file.
Let's see the status of the part.
Okay, it's created, but it's not in a running stage.
Give it a second.
Yep, it's in the running stage.
Okay, so that's successful.
So let's check the status of the PVC now.
And we now see that it's in a bound state -
so it's in a bound state.
So as soon as a volume use that PVC,
it went into a bound state.
So create a new storage called storage class
called delayed volume SC
that makes use of the below specs provisioner
and volume binding mode.
Okay, so let's do that.
Let's first create a file called
Delete volume SE.ammo.
And we need a template for a storage class.
That search for storage class.
So we're gonna use this.
So let's use the first lines.
Okay, now the name is going to be
delayed volume sc.
The provisioner is going to be:
no provisioner.
And volume Binding Mode..
The volume binding mode is this..
is going to be wait for first consumer.
Let's wait for first consumer.
Yep. So this seems to be it.
So let's create that storage class.
Yes, the storage class is created.
Let's check it out.
Yep. It's created with the No Provisioner
provisioner and the wait for first consumer
while in binding mount.
(indistinct)
Okay, That's successful.
Yep. So that's the end of this lab.

