--- Networking - Introduction ---

-: Hello and welcome to this section
on networking in Kubernetes. My name is
Munjab Manamet, and we are going through
the certified Kubernetes Administrators course.
In this section, we focus on the networking concepts.
Some networking basics are required to get
through the section, such as the basics
about setting and checking IP addresses on any given system,
knowledge on gateways and routes, and knowledge
about DNS and configuring DNS servers, et cetera.
While working on this section, as before, we sent
out a poll asking about your knowledge in networking.
Based on your feedback, we've created some
prerequisite lectures around
configuring interfaces and IP addresses,
configuring gateways and routes,
basics of name resolution,
DNS configuration on Linux systems,
as well as how to get started with one of
the DNS solutions core DNS.
These are short lectures that should give you
enough knowledge to go through
the remainder of this section.
It is also important to know a little bit
about a network name spaces and
how Docker uses network name spaces internally.
Again, as always, these are for beginners
and our optional lectures, and
depending on your knowledge, feel free to go
through only those that you think you really need.
I would highly recommend the network name spaces
and Docker networking lectures.
Once we are done with the prerequisite lectures
we start with networking in Kubernetes.
Again, I'm going to rearrange the topics
a little bit to improve the flow.
We start by looking at the cluster networking needs
and then followed by POD networking concepts.
We then look at CNI in Kubernetes
and how CNI can help solve
the POD networking challenges.
This is where we pick up from where we left off
in the prerequisite lectures around network name spaces.
We continue to discuss cluster DNS
and how Kubernetes implements DNS internally.
We then finish with ingress networking.
Again, this is one section that I spent a lot
of time on and I hope you enjoy it.

--- Prerequisite Switching, Routing, Gateways CNI in Kubernetes ---

In this series of lectures, we get our networking basics right.
We look at basic networking concepts like switching, routing, gateways, etc. we then understand DNS
and then we get a basic introduction to core DNS.
We look at how to configure DNS settings on a Linux system.
We then understand basics of network namespaces in Linux.
Okay, I'm not going to bore you with theories on OSI models or network layers.
We're just brushing up enough networking to understand the rest of the section in this course.
Now we don't just go through the concepts, we see how these are configured on our systems, specifically
from a Linux perspective.
So there are going to be lots of commands.
We look at these from a system admins and the application developer's perspective and not necessarily
from a network engineers that way.
Later on, when we discuss these in the context of our course, you know what we are talking about,
where to look for information, where things are configured, how to troubleshoot, etc. and of course,
as always, if these seem to be too basic for you, if you or if you're already good with networking
in Linux, feel free to skip these lectures and go straight to the ones on Kubernetes.
So let's get started.
So what is a network?
We have two computers A and B laptops, desktops VMs on the cloud wherever.
How does system A reach B?
We connect them to a switch, and the switch creates a network containing the two systems to connect
them to a switch.
We need an interface on each host, physical or virtual, depending on the host, to see the interfaces
for the host.
We use the IP link command.
In this case, we look at the interface named eth0 that we will be using to connect to the switch.
Let's assume it's a network with the address 192.168.1.0.
We then assign the systems with IP addresses on the same network.
For this we use the command IP addr.
Once the links are up and the IP addresses are assigned, the computers can now communicate with each
other through the switch.
The switch can only enable communication within a network, which means it can receive packets from
a host on the network and deliver it to other systems within the same network.
Say we have another network containing systems C and D at address 192.168.2.0.
The systems have IP address 192.1682.1 and 2.11 respectively.
How does a system in one network reach a system in the other?
How does system B with the IP 1921681.11 reach system C with the IP 2.1 on the other network?
That's where a router comes in.
A router helps connect two networks together.
It is an intelligent device, so think of it as another server with many network ports.
Since it connects to the two separate networks, it gets two IPS assigned, one on each network.
In the first network, we assign it an IP address 192.1681.1, and in the second we assign it an IP
2.1.
Now we have a router connected to the two networks that can enable communication between them.
When system B tries to send a packet to system C, how does it know where the router is on the network
to send the packet through?
The router is just another device on the network.
There could be many other such devices.
That's where we configure the systems with a gateway or a route.
If the network was a room, the gateway is a door to the outside world, to the other networks, or
to the internet.
The systems need to know where that door is to go through that.
To see the existing routing configuration on a system, run the route command.
It displays the kernel's routing table.
And within that, as you can see, there are no routing configurations as of now.
So in this condition your system B will not be able to reach system C, it can only reach other systems
within the same network in the range 192.168.1.0.
To configure a gateway on system B to reach the systems on network 2.0, run the IP route add command
and specify that you can reach the 182.168.2.0 network through the door or gateway, at 192.168.1.1.
Running the route command again shows that we have a route added to reach the 1921682.0 series network
through the router.
Now remember this has to be configured on all the systems.
For example, if the system C is to send a packet to system B, then you need to add a route on System
C's routing table to access the network at 1.0 through the router configured with the IP address 2.1.
Now suppose these systems need access to the internet.
Say they need access to Google at 172.27.194.0.
Network on the internet.
So you connect the router to the internet, and then add a new route in your routing table to route
all traffic to the network.
172.27.194.
Through your router.
There are so many different sites on different networks on the internet.
Instead of adding a routing table entry for the same router's IP address for each of those networks,
you can simply say for any network that you don't know a route to use this router as the default gateway.
This way, any request to any network outside of your existing network goes to this particular router.
So in a simple setup like this, all you need is a single routing table entry with the default gateway
set to the router's IP address.
Remember, instead of the word default, you could also say 0.0.0.0.
It means any IP destination.
Both of these lines mean the same thing.
A 0.0.0.0 entry in the gateway field indicates that you don't need a gateway.
For example, in this case, for system C to access any devices in the 192.1682.0 network.
It doesn't need a gateway because it is in its own network.
But say you have multiple routers in your network, one for the internet, another for the internal
private network.
Then you will need to have two separate entries for each network, one entry for the internal private
network, and another entry with the default gateway for all other networks, including public networks.
So if you're having issues reaching internet from your systems, this routing table and the default
gateway configuration is a good place to start.
Let us now look at how we can set up a Linux host as a router.
Let's start with a simple setup.
I have three hosts A, B and C, A and B are connected to a network 192, 1681, and B and C to another
1192168.2.
So host B is connected to both the networks using two interfaces, eth0 and eth1.
A has IP 1921681.5, C has 1921682.5, and B has an IP on both the networks 1.6 and 2.6.
How do we get A to talk to C?
Basically, if I try to ping 2.5 from A, it would say network is unreachable.
And by now we know why that is.
Host A has no idea how to reach a network at 192.168.2.
We need to tell host A that the door or gateway to network two is through host B, and we do that by
adding a routing table entry.
We add a route to access network 192.168.2 via the gateway.
192.1681.6.
If the packets were to get through to host C.
Host C will have to send back responses to host A.
When host C tries to reach host A at 192.1681.
Network.
It would face the same issue.
So we need to let host C know that it can reach host A through host B, which is acting as a router.
So we add a similar entry into Host C's routing table.
This time we say to reach network 1921681.0.
Talk to host B at 192.1682.6.
When we try to ping now, we no longer get the network unreachable error message.
That means our routing entries are right, but we still don't get any response back by default in Linux.
Packets are not forwarded from one interface to the next.
For example, packets received on eth0 on host B are not forwarded to elsewhere through each one.
This is this way for security reasons.
For example, if you had eth0 connected to your private network and eth1 to a public network.
We don't want anyone from the public network to easily send messages to the private network, unless
you explicitly allow that.
But in this case, since we know that both are private networks and it is safe to enable communication
between them, we can allow host B to forward packets from one network to the other.
Whether a host can forward packets between interfaces is governed by a setting in this system at file
proc sys net IPv4 IP underscore forward.
By default, the value in this file is set to zero, meaning no forward.
Set this to one and you should see the pins go through.
Now remember simply setting this value does not persist the changes across reboots.
For that, you must modify the same value in the Etsy Sis control dot conf file.
So let's take away some key commands from this lecture.
This will be handy in the upcoming lectures.
IP link is to list and modify interfaces on the host.
IP addr command is to see the IP addresses assigned to those interfaces.
IP addr add command is used to set IP addresses on the interfaces.
Now remember, changes made using these commands are only valid till a restart.
If you want to persist these changes, you must set them in the network interfaces file.
IP root, or simply the root command, is used to view the routing table and IP route.
Add command is used to add entries into the routing table.
And finally, remember the command to check if IP forwarding is enabled on a host.
If you're working with a host configured as a router.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
In the next lecture we will discuss about DNS configurations.

--- Prerequisite DNS ---

In this video we get introduced to DNS in Linux for the absolute beginners.
We will discuss the basic concepts and view some commands that will help us explore DNS configuration
on hosts, specifically Linux hosts.
We have two computers, A and B, both part of the same network, and they've been assigned with IP
addresses 1921681.1 and 1.11.
You're able to ping one computer from the other using the other computer's IP address.
You know that system B has database services on them.
So instead of having to remember the IP address of system B, you decide to give it a name DB.
Going forward, you would like to ping system B using the name db instead of its IP address.
If you try to ping DB now, you would see that host A is unaware of a host named DB.
So how do you fix that?
Basically, you want to tell system A that system B at IP address 1921681.17 11 has a name DB.
We want to tell system A that when I say db, I mean the IP 1921681. 11.
You can do that by adding an entry into the Etsy host file on system A, mention the IP address and
the name you want your host to see.
System B, as we told system A that the IP at 1921681.11 is a host named DB to DB.
Now gets sent to the correct IP and are successful.
Now there is an important point to note here.
We told system A that the IP at 1921681.11 is a host named DB host A takes that for granted.
Whatever we put in the Etsy host file is the source of truth for host A, but that need not be the truth.
Host A does not check to make sure if system B is actual name is db.
For instance, running a hostname command on system B reveals that it is named host two, but host A
doesn't care.
It goes by what's in the host file.
You can even fool system A to believing that system B is Google.
Just add an entry into the host file with an IP mapping to google.com.
Then ping Google and you will get a response from system B.
So we have two names pointing to the same system.
One SDB and another as Google.
And we can use either names to reach system B.
You can have as many names as you want for as many servers as you want in the Etsy host file.
Every time we reference another host by its name from host A through a ping command or SSH command,
or through any of the applications or tools within this system, it looks into its Etsy host file to
find out the IP address of that host.
Translating host name to IP address this way is known as name resolution.
Within a small network of few systems, you can easily get away with the entries in the Etsy Hosts file.
On each system, I specify which are the other systems in the environment, and that's how it was done
in the past.
Until the environment grew and these files got filled with too many entries, and managing these became
too hard.
If one of the server's IP changed, you would need to modify the entries in all of these hosts.
And that's where we decided to move all these entries into a single server who will manage it centrally.
We call that our DNS server, and then we point all hosts to lookup that server.
If they need to resolve a hostname to an IP address instead of its own.
Etsy hosts files.
So how do we do that?
How do we point our host to a DNS server?
Our DNS server has the IP 192.1681. 100.
Every host has a DNS resolution configuration file at Etsy Resolv.conf.
You add an entry into it specifying the address of the DNS server.
We say name server and point it to 192.168.1.10.
And that should be it.
Once this is configured on all of your hosts, every time a host comes up across a hostname that it
does not know about, it looks it up from the DNS server.
If the IP of any of the host was to change, simply update the DNS server and all hosts should resolve
the new IP address going forward.
You no longer need any entries in the etc. host file in any of the hosts, but that does not mean you
can't have entries in host file.
You still can.
For example, say you were to provision a test server for your own needs.
You don't think others would need to resolve the server by its name, so it need not be added to the
DNS server.
In that case, you can add an entry into your host's Etsy host file to resolve this server.
You can now resolve the server, however, no other system will be able to do that.
So a system is able to use hostname to IP mapping from the Etsy host file locally, as well as from
a remote DNS server.
What if you have an entry in both places, one in your Etsy host file and another in DNS?
I have an entry in my local file set to 192.1681.115, and someone added an entry for the same host
to 1921681.116 on the DNS server.
In that case, the host first looks in the local Etsy host file and then looks at the name server.
So if it finds the entry in the local Etsy host file, it uses that.
If not, it looks for that host in the DNS server, but that order can be changed.
The order is defined by an entry in the file Etsy Nsswitch.conf.
The line with the host entry.
As you can see, the order is first files and then followed by DNS files.
Refers to Etsy host file and DNS refers to the DNS server.
So for every host name, the host first looks into the Etsy host file, and if it cannot find it there,
it then looks at the DNS server.
This order can be modified by editing this entry in the file as per this order.
Our host would resolve the test server to 192.1681.115.
What if you try to ping a server that is not in either list?
For example, I try and ping facebook.com.
I don't have facebook.com in my Etsy host file, and I don't have it in my DNS server either.
So in that case it will fail.
You can add another entry into your resolv.conf file to point to a Nameserver that knows Facebook.
For example, 8.8.8.8 is a common, well-known public name server available on the internet, hosted
by Google that knows about all websites on the internet.
You can have multiple name servers like this configured on your host, but then you will have to configure
that on all your hosts in your network.
You already have a name server within your network configured on all the hosts.
So in that case, you can configure the DNS server itself to forward any unknown host names to the public
name server on the internet.
You should now be able to ping external sites such as facebook.com.
Until now, we've been just trying to reach systems with their names like web DB, NFS, etc. but we
just try to ping Facebook at facebook.com.
What is this name with the W-w-w?
And at the end it's called a domain name, and it is how IP's translate to names that we can remember
on the public internet, just like how we did for our hosts.
Now, the reason they are in this format, separated by dots, is to group like things together.
The last portion of the domain name, the dot coms, the dot net, dot edu, dot org, etc. are the
top level domains that represent the intent of the website.com for commercial or general purpose dot
net for network, dot edu for educational organizations And for non-profit organizations.
Let's look at one in particular.
In Google's case, the dot is the root.
That's where everything starts.
Dot com is the top level domain.
Google is the domain name assigned to Google, and w-w-w is a subdomain.
The subdomains help in further grouping things together under Google.
For example, Google's map service is available at maps.google.com, so maps is a subdomain.
Google's storage service is available at drive.google.com.
Mobile apps are available at maps.google.com.
Google's email service are available at mail.google.com.
You can further divide each of these into as many subdomains based on your needs.
So you begin to see a tree structure forming.
When you try to reach any of these domain names, say Maps.google.com.
From within your organization, your request first hits your organization's internal DNS server.
It doesn't know who apps or Google is, so it forwards your request to.
The internet.
On the internet, the IP address of the server serving Maps.google.com may be resolved with the help
of multiple DNS servers.
A DNS server looks at your request and points you to a DNS server.
Serving as a DNS server looks at your request and forwards you to Google, and Google's DNS server provides
you the IP of the server serving the apps applications.
In order to speed up all future results, your organization's DNS server may choose to cache this IP
for a period of time, typically few seconds up to few minutes.
That way, it doesn't have to go through the whole process again each time.
So that was out in the public.
What about your organization?
Your organization can have a similar structure too.
For example, your organization could be called as my company.com and have multiple subdomains for each
purpose.
The W-w-w for external facing website.
Mail my company.com for accessing your organizations mail drive for accessing storage.
Paid or Company.com for accessing the payroll application, HR for accessing HR application, etc..
All of these are configured in your organization's internal DNS server.
The reason we discussed all of this is to understand another entry in the Etsy Resolv.conf file.
Remember, this is the file where we configured the DNS server to be used for our host.
With that, we were able to resolve servers in your organization with just their names like web.
We have now introduced more standard domain names like web dot my Company.com or my Company.com, etc.
now when you ping web, you can no longer get a response.
Of course, this is because we are trying to ping web, but there is no record for by the name web on
my DNS server.
Instead it is web company.com so you have to use web dot company.com.
Now I can understand if someone outside our company wants to access our web server.
He would have to use web company.com.
But within our company, your own company, you want to simply address the web server by its first name,
web.
Just like how you address other members in your family simply by their first names, which is not the
case when someone outside your family addresses them using their full names.
So what do you do to configure web?
To resolve my web?
My company.com.
You want to say when I say web, I mean web dot Company.com.
For that, you make an entry into your host's Etsy resolv.conf file called search and specify the domain
name you want to append.
Next time you try to ping web, you will see it actually tries web dot company.com.
Now your host is intelligent enough to exclude the search domain.
If you specified a domain in your query like this, you may also provide additional search domains like
this.
So it would mean.
When I say web, I mean web dot my Company.com or web product Company.com.
So your host would try searching all of these domain names when you look for a host name.
Finally, a word about a record types.
So how were the records stored in the DNS server?
We know that it stores IP to host names.
That's known as a records.
Storing IPv6 to host names is known as quad records mapping.
One name to another name is called CNAME records.
For example, you may have multiple aliases for the same application, like a food delivery service
may also be reached at eat or hungry.
That's where a CNAME record is used.
Name to name mapping.
There are many more, but that's all we're going to look at for now.
Now, ping may not always be the right tool to test DNS resolution.
There are a few other tools as well, such as Nslookup.
You can use Nslookup to query a hostname from a DNS server.
But remember Nslookup does not consider the entries in the local Etsy host file.
So if you add an entry into the local Etsy host file for your web application, and if you try to do
an nslookup for that web application, it is not going to find it.
The entry for your web application has to be present in your DNS server.
Nslookup only queries the DNS server.
The same goes with dig.
Dig is another useful tool to test DNS name resolution.
It returns more details in a similar form as is stored on the server.
In the upcoming Practice Exercises section, you will practice configuring and troubleshooting DNS in
a lab environment on actual systems through some fun and challenging exercises.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
And in the next lecture, we'll look at how to set up an actual DNS server on a system where we will
use DNS as our DNS solution.
Well, thank you so much for watching, and don't forget to subscribe to my channel for more videos
like this.

--- Prerequisite - CoreDNS ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Prerequisite Network Namespaces ---

1
In this video, we get introduced
2
to network namespaces in Linux.
3
Network namespaces are used by containers like Docker
4
to implement network isolation.
5
We'll start with a simple host.
6
As we know already, containers are separated
7
from the underlying host using namespaces.
8
So what are namespaces?
9
If your host was your house,
10
then namespaces are the rooms within the house
11
that you assign to each of your children.
12
The room helps in providing privacy to each child.
13
Each child can only see what's within his or her room.
14
They cannot see what happens outside their room.
15
As far as they're concerned,
16
they're the only person living in the house.
17
However, as a parent,
18
you have visibility into all the rooms in the house,
19
as well as other areas of the house.
20
If you wish, you can establish connectivity
21
between two rooms in the house.
22
When you create a container, you wanna make sure
23
that it is isolated,
24
that it does not see any other processes
25
on the host or any other containers.
26
So we create a special room for it on our host
27
using a namespace.
28
As far as the container is concerned,
29
it only sees the processes run by it
30
and thinks that it is on its own host.
31
The underlying host, however, has visibility
32
into all of the processes,
33
including those running inside the containers.
34
This can be seen when you list the processes
35
from within the container.
36
You see a single process with a process ID of one.
37
When you list the same processes
38
as a route user from the underlying host,
39
you see all the other processes
40
along with the process running inside the container.
41
This time with a different process ID.
42
It's the same process running with different process IDs
43
inside and outside the container.
44
That's how namespaces work.
45
When it comes to networking, our host has its own interfaces
46
that connect to the local area network.
47
Our host has its own routing and arp tables
48
with information about rest of the network.
49
We want to seal all of those details from the container.
50
When the container is created,
51
we create a network namespace for it.
52
That way, it has no visibility
53
to any network related information on the host.
54
Within its namespace,
55
the container can have its own virtual interfaces,
56
routing, and arp tables.
57
The container has its own interface.
58
To create a new network namespace on a Linux host,
59
run the IP netns add command.
60
In this case, we create two network namespaces
61
to list the network namespace, run the IP netns command.
62
To list the interfaces on my host,
63
I run the IP link command.
64
I see that my host has the loopback interface
65
and the eat zero interface.
66
Now, how do we view the same within the network namespace
67
that we created?
68
How do we run the same command within the red
69
or blue namespace?
70
Prefix the command with the command IP netns exec,
71
followed by the namespace name, which is red.
72
Now, the IP link command will be executed
73
inside the red namespace.
74
Another way to do it is to add the -n option
75
to the original IP link command.
76
Both of these are the same.
77
The second one is similar, but remember,
78
this only works if you intend to run the IP command
79
inside the namespace.
80
As you can see, it only lists the loopback interface.
81
You cannot see the eight zero interface on the host.
82
So with namespaces, we have successfully prevented
83
the container from seeing the host's interface.
84
The same is true with the arp table.
85
If you run the arp command on the host,
86
you see a list of entries.
87
But if you run it inside the container, you see no entries
88
and the same for routing table.
89
Now, as of now, these network namespaces
90
have no network connectivity.
91
They have no interfaces of their own
92
and they cannot see the underlying host network.
93
Let's first look at establishing connectivity
94
between the namespaces themselves.
95
Just like how we would connect
96
two physical machines together using a cable
97
to an ethernet interface on each machine,
98
you can connect two namespaces together
99
using a virtual ethernet pair or a virtual cable.
100
It's often referred to as a pipe,
101
but I like to call it a virtual cable
102
with two interfaces on either ends.
103
To create the cable, run the IP link add command
104
with a type set to veth and specify the two ends,
105
veth-red and veth-blue.
106
The next step is to attach each interface
107
to the appropriate namespace.
108
Use the command IP link set veth-red netns red to do that.
109
Similarly, attach the blue interface to the blue namespace.
110
We can then assign IP addresses to each of these namespaces.
111
We will use the usual IP LEDR command
112
to assign the IP address, but within each namespace.
113
We will assign the red namespace and IP 192.168.15.1.
114
We then assign the blue namespace and IP 192.168.15.2.
115
We then bring up the interface using the IP link
116
set up command for each device
117
within the respective namespaces.
118
The links are up and the namespaces can now
119
reach each other.
120
Try a ping from the red namespace
121
to reach the IP of the blue.
122
If you look at the arp table on the red namespace,
123
you see it's identified its blue neighbor at 192.168.15.2
124
with a MAC address.
125
Similarly, if you list the arp table on the blue namespace,
126
you see it's identified, it's red neighbor.
127
If you compare this with the arp table of the host,
128
you see that the hosts arp table has no idea
129
about this new namespaces we have created
130
and no idea about the interfaces we created in them.
131
Now, that worked when you had just two namespaces.
132
What do you do when you have more of them?
133
How do you enable all of them
134
to communicate with each other?
135
Just like in the physical world,
136
you create a virtual network inside your host,
137
create a network, you need a switch.
138
So to create a virtual network, you need a virtual switch.
139
So you create a virtual switch within our host
140
and connect the namespaces to it.
141
But how do you create a virtual switch within a host?
142
There are multiple solutions available,
143
such as the native solution called as Linux Bridge,
144
and the Open vSwitch, et cetera.
145
In this example, we will use the Linux Bridge option.
146
To create an internal bridge network,
147
we add a new interface to the host
148
using the IP link add command
149
with the type set to bridge.
150
We will name it v-net-0.
151
As far as our host is concerned,
152
it is just another interface,
153
just like the eight zero interface.
154
It appears in the output of the IP link command
155
along with the other interfaces.
156
It's currently down, so you need to turn it up.
157
Use the IP link set dev up command to bring it up.
158
Now, for the namespaces, this interface is like a switch
159
that it can connect to.
160
So think of it as an interface for the host
161
and a switch for the namespaces.
162
So the next step is to connect the namespaces
163
to this new virtual network switch.
164
Earlier, we created the cable or the eth pair
165
with the veth-red interface on one end
166
and blue interface on the other
167
because we wanted to connect the two namespaces directly.
168
Now, we will be connecting all namespaces
169
to the bridge network.
170
So we need new cables for that purpose.
171
This cable doesn't make sense anymore,
172
so we will get rid of it.
173
Use the IP link delete command to delete the cable.
174
When you delete the link with one end,
175
the other end gets deleted automatically
176
since they are a pair.
177
That does now create new cables
178
to connect the namespace to the bridge.
179
Run the IP link add command and create a pair
180
with veth-red on one end like before,
181
but this time, the other end will be named veth-red-br
182
as it connects to the bridge network.
183
This naming convention will help us easily identify
184
the interfaces that associate to the red namespace.
185
Similarly, create a cable to connect the blue namespace
186
to the bridge network.
187
Now that we have the cables ready,
188
it's time to get them connected to the namespaces.
189
To attach one end of the interface to the red namespace,
190
run the IP link set veth-red netns red command.
191
To attach the other end to the bridge network,
192
run the IP link set command on the veth-red-br end
193
and specify the master for it as the v-net-0 network.
194
Follow the same procedure to attach the blue cable
195
to the blue namespace and the bridge network.
196
That has now set IP addresses
197
for these links and turn them up.
198
We'll use the same IP addresses that we used before,
199
192.168.15.1 and 192.168.15.2.
200
And finally, turn the devices up.
201
The containers can now reach each other over the network.
202
So we follow the same procedure
203
to connect the remaining namespaces to the same network.
204
We now have all four namespaces connected
205
to our internal bridge network,
206
and they can all communicate with each other.
207
They have all IP addresses 192.168.15.1,
208
two, three, and four.
209
And remember, we assigned our host the IP 192.168.1.2.
210
From my host, what if I try to reach
211
one of these interfaces in these namespaces?
212
Will it work? No.
213
My host is on one network and the namespaces are on another.
214
But what if I really want to establish connectivity
215
between my host and this namespaces?
216
Remember, we said that the bridge switch is actually
217
a network interface for the host.
218
So we do have an interface on the 192.168.15 network
219
on our host.
220
Since this just another interface,
221
all we need to do is assign an IP address to it
222
so we can reach the namespace through it.
223
Run the IP addr command to set the IP 192.168.15.5
224
to this interface.
225
We can now ping the red namespace from our local host.
226
Now, remember, this entire network is still private
227
and restricted within the host.
228
From within the namespaces,
229
you can't reach the outside world,
230
nor can anyone from the outside world reach the services
231
or applications hosted inside.
232
The only door to the outside world
233
is the ethernet port on the host.
234
So how do we configure this bridge to reach the LAN network
235
through the ethernet port?
236
Say there is another host attached to our LAN network
237
with the address 192.168.1.3.
238
How can I reach this host from within my namespaces?
239
What happens if I try to ping this host
240
from my blue namespace?
241
The blue namespace sees that I'm trying to reach a network
242
at 192.168.1, which is different from my current network
243
of 192.168.15.
244
So it looks at its routing table to see
245
how to find that network.
246
The routing table has no information about other network.
247
So it comes back saying that the network is unreachable.
248
So we need to add an entry into the routing table
249
to provide a gateway or door to the outside world.
250
So how do we find that gateway?
251
A door or a gateway, as we discussed before,
252
is a system on the local network
253
that connects to the other network.
254
So what is a system that has one interface on the network
255
local to the blue namespace,
256
which is the 192.168.15 network,
257
and is also connected to the outside LAN network?
258
Here's a logical view.
259
It's the local host that have all these namespaces on
260
so you can ping the namespaces.
261
Remember, our local host has an interface to attach
262
to the private network so you can ping the namespaces.
263
So our local host is the gateway
264
that connects the two networks together.
265
We can now add a route entry in the blue namespace to say,
266
route all traffic to the 192.168.1 network
267
through the gateway at 192.168.15.5.
268
Now, remember, our host has two IP addresses,
269
one on the bridge network at 192.168.15.5,
270
and another on the external network at 192.168.1.2.
271
Can you use any in the route?
272
No, because the blue namespace can only reach the gateway
273
in its local network at 192.168.15.5.
274
The default gateway should be reachable from your namespace
275
when you add it to your route.
276
When you try to ping now,
277
you no longer get the network unreachable message,
278
but you still don't get any response back from the ping.
279
What might be the problem?
280
We talked about a similar situation
281
in one of our earlier lectures, where from our home network,
282
we try to reach the external internet through our router.
283
Our home network has our internal private IP addresses
284
that the destination network don't know about,
285
so they cannot reach back.
286
For this, we need NAT enable on our host
287
acting as the gateway here so that it can send the messages
288
to the LAN in its own name with its own address.
289
So how do we add NAT functionality to our host?
290
We should do that using iptables.
291
Add a new rule in the NAT iptable in the post routing chain
292
to masquerade or replace the from address on all packets
293
coming from the source network 192.168.15.0
294
with its own IP address.
295
That way, anyone receiving these packets outside the network
296
will think that they're coming from the host
297
and not from within the namespace.
298
When we try to ping now,
299
we see that we are able to reach the outside world.
300
Finally, say the LAN is connected to the internet.
301
We want the namespaces to reach the internet.
302
So we try to ping a server on the internet at 8.8.8.8
303
from the blue namespace.
304
We receive a familiar message
305
that the network is unreachable.
306
By now we know why that is.
307
We look at the routing table
308
and see that we have routes to the network 192.168.1,
309
but not to anything else.
310
Since these namespaces can reach any network
311
our host can reach, we can simply say that
312
to reach any external network, talk to our host.
313
So we add a default gateway specifying our host,
314
we should now be able to reach the outside world
315
from within these namespaces.
316
Now, what about connectivity from the outside world
317
to inside the namespaces?
318
Say for example, the blue namespace hosts
319
a web application on port 80.
320
As of now, the namespaces are on an internal private network
321
and no one from the outside world knows about them.
322
We can only access these from the host itself.
323
If you try to ping the private IP of the namespace
324
from another host on another network,
325
you will see that it's not reachable.
326
Obviously, because that host doesn't know about
327
this private network.
328
In order to make that communication possible,
329
you have two options.
330
The two options that we saw previously on that.
331
The first is to give away the identity
332
of the private network to the second host.
333
So we basically add an IP route entry to the second host,
334
telling the host that the network 192.168.15
335
can be reached through the host at 192.168.1.2,
336
but we don't want to do that.
337
The other option is to add a port forwarding rule
338
using iptables to say any traffic coming to port 80
339
on the local host is to be forwarded to port 80
340
on the IP assigned to the blue namespace.
341
Well, that's it for this video. Thank you for watching.

--- FAQ ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Prerequisite Docker Networking ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we look at networking in Docker.
We will start with a basic networking options in Docker, and then try and relate it to the concepts
around networking namespaces.
Let's start with a single Docker host a server with Docker installed on it.
It has an Ethernet interface at eth0 that connects to the local network with the IP address.
192.168.1.1.
When you run a container, you have different networking options to choose from.
First, let's see the Non-network with the Non-network.
The Docker container is not attached to any network.
The container cannot reach the outside world, and no one from the outside world can reach the container.
If you run multiple containers, they are all created without being part of any network and cannot talk
to each other or to the outside world.
Next is the host network.
With the host network, the container is attached to the host's network.
There is no network isolation between the host and the container.
If you deploy a web application listening on port 80.
In the container.
Then the web application is available on port 80 on the host without having to do any additional port
mapping.
If you try to run another instance of the same container that listens on the same port, it won't work
as they share the host networking and two processes cannot listen on the same port at the same time.
The third networking option is the bridge.
In this case, an internal private network is created which the Docker host and containers attached
to the network has an address 172.17.0.0 by default, and each device connecting to this network get
their own internal private network address on this network.
This is the network that we are most interested in.
So we will take a deeper look at how exactly Docker creates and manages this network.
When Docker is installed on the host, it creates an internal private network called bridge by default.
You can see this when you run the Docker network ls command.
Now Docker calls the network by the name, but on the host, the network is created by the docker zero.
You can see this in the output of the IP link command.
Docker internally uses a technique similar to what we saw in the video on namespaces, by running the
IP link ad command with the type set to bridge.
So remember the name bridge in Docker network output refers to the name docker zero on the host to run
the same thing.
Also note that the interface or network is currently down.
Now remember we said that the bridge network is like an interface to the host, but a switch to the
namespaces or containers within the host.
So the interface docker zero on the host is assigned an IP 172.17.0.1.
You can see this in the output of the IP addr command.
Whenever a container is created, Docker creates a network namespace for it, just like how we created
network namespaces in the previous video.
Run the IP net command to list the namespace.
Note that there is a minor hack to be done to get the IP Netns command.
To list the namespaces created by Docker.
Check out the resources section of this lecture for information on that.
The namespace has the name starting B3165.
You can see the namespace associated with each container in the output of the docker inspect command.
So how does Docker attach the container or its network namespace to the bridge network?
For the remainder of this lecture, a container and network namespace means the same thing.
When a container, I'm referring to the network namespace created by Docker for that container.
So how does Docker attach the container to the bridge?
As we did before, it creates a cable a virtual cable with two interfaces on each end.
Let's find out what Docker has created here.
If you run the IP link command on the Docker host, you see one end of the interface which is attached
to the local bridge Docker zero.
If we run the same command again, this time with the dash n option with the namespace, then it lists
the other end of the interface within the container namespace.
The interface also gets an IP assigned within the network.
You can view this by running the IP addr command, but within the container's namespace the container
gets assigned 172.17.0.3.
You can also view this by attaching to the container and looking at the IP address assigned to it that
way.
The same procedure is followed every time a new container is created.
Docker creates a namespace, creates a pair of interfaces, attaches one end to the container, and
another end to the bridge network.
The interface pairs can be identified using their numbers.
Odd and even form a pair nine and ten are one, pair seven and eight are another.
11 and 12 are one pair.
The containers are all part of the network.
Now they can all communicate with each other.
Let us look at port mapping now.
the container we created is nginx.
So it's a web application serving web page on port 80.
Since our container is within a private network inside the host, only other containers in the same
network are.
The host itself can access this web page.
If you try to access the web page using curl with the IP of the container from within Docker host on
port 80, you will see the web page.
If you try to do the same thing outside the host, you cannot view the web page to allow external users
to access the applications hosted on containers.
Docker provides a port publishing or port mapping option when you run containers.
Tell Docker to map port 8080 on the Docker host to port 80 on the container.
With that done, you could access the web application using the IP of the Docker host and port 8080.
Any traffic to port 8080 on the docker host will be forwarded to port 80 on the container.
Now all of your external users and other applications or service can use this URL to access the application
deployed on the host.
But how does Docker do that?
How does it forward traffic from one port to another?
Well, what would you do?
Let's forget about Docker and everything else for a second.
The requirement is to forward traffic coming in on one port to another port on the server.
We talked about it in one of our prerequisite lectures.
We create a Nat rule for that using iptables.
We create an entry into the Nat table to append the rules to the prerouting chain, to change the destination
port from 1880 to 80.
Docker does it the same way.
Docker adds the rule to the Docker chain and sets destination to include the container's IP as well.
You can see the rule Docker creates when you list the rules in iptables.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
In the next lecture we will talk about CNI and what a container networking interface is.

--- Prerequisite CNI ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we look at container networking interface.
So far we saw how network namespaces work as in how to create an isolated network namespace environment.
Within our system.
We saw how to connect multiple such namespaces through a bridged network, how to create virtual cables
or pipes with virtual interfaces on either end, and then how to attach each end to a namespace and
the bridge.
We don't know how to assign IP and bring them on, and finally enable Nat or IP masquerade for external
communication, etc. we then saw how Docker did it for its bridge networking option.
It was pretty much the same way, except that it uses different naming patterns.
Well, other container solutions solve their networking challenges in kind of the same way, like Rocket
or Mesos, containerization, or any other solutions that work with containers and requires to configure
networking between them like Kubernetes.
If we are all trying to solve the same networking challenges by researching and finally identifying
a similar approach with our own little minor differences.
Why code and develop the same solution multiple times?
Why not just create a single standard approach that everyone can follow?
So we take all of these ideas from the different solutions, and move all the networking portions of
it into a single program or code.
And since this is for the bridge network, we call it bridge.
So we created a program or script that performs all the required tasks to get the container attached
to a bridge network.
For example, you could run this program using its name bridge and specify that you want to add this
container to a particular network namespace.
The bridge program takes care of the rest so that the container runtime environments are relieved of
those tasks.
For example, when Rocket or Kubernetes creates a new container, they call the bridge program and pass
the container ID and namespace to get networking configured for that container.
So what if you wanted to create such a program for yourself, maybe for a new networking type?
If you were doing so, what arguments and commands should it support?
How do you make sure the program you create will work correctly with these runtimes?
How do you know that container runtimes like Kubernetes or Rocket will invoke your program correctly?
That's where we need some standards to find a standard that defines how a program should look, how
container runtimes will invoke them so that everyone can adhere to a single set of standards and develop
solutions that work across runtimes.
Basuo container network interface comes in.
The CNI is a set of standards that define how programs should be developed to solve networking challenges
in a container.
Runtime environments.
The programs are referred to as plugins, in this case bridge Brits program that we have been referring
to is a plugin for CNI.
CNI defines how the plugin should be developed and how container runtimes should invoke them.
CNI defines a set of responsibilities for container runtimes and plugins for container runtimes.
CNI specifies that it is responsible for creating a network namespace for each container.
It should then identify the networks the container must attach to.
Container runtime must then invoke the plugin when a container is created using the add command, and
also invoke the plugin when the container is deleted using the del command.
It also specifies how to configure a network plugin on the container runtime environment using a JSON
file.
On the plugin side, it defines that the plugin should support add del and check command line arguments,
and that these should accept parameters like container and network namespace.
The plugin should take care of assigning IP addresses to the pods and any associated routes required
for the containers to reach other containers in the network at the end, the results should be specified
in a particular format, as long as the container runtimes and plugins adhere to these standards, they
can all live together in harmony.
Any runtime should be able to work with any plugin.
CNI comes with a set of supported plugins already, such as bridge, Vlan, IP, Vlan, Macvlan one
for windows, as well as iPam plugins like host, local and DHCP.
There are other plugins available from third party organizations as well.
Some examples are weave, flannel, cilium, VMware, NSX, calico, Infoblox, etc. all of these container
runtimes implement CNI standards, so any of them can work with any of these plugins.
But there is one that is not in this list.
Docker.
Her Docker does not implement.
Docker has its own set of standards known as CNM, which stands for Container Network Model, which
is another standard that aims at solving container networking challenges similar to CNI, but with some
differences due to the differences.
These plugins don't natively integrate with Docker, meaning you can't run a Docker container and specify
the network plugin to use is CNI and specify one of these plugins.
But that doesn't mean you can't use Docker with CNI at all, you just have to work around it yourself.
For example, create a Docker container without any network configuration and then manually invoke the
bridge plugin yourself.
That is pretty much how Kubernetes does it.
When Kubernetes creates Docker containers, it creates them on the network.
It then invokes the configured CNI plugins who take care of the rest of the configuration.
We talk about CNI in Kubernetes in the upcoming lectures.

--- Cluster Networking ---

In this lecture, we look at the networking configurations required on the master and worker nodes in
a Kubernetes cluster.
The Kubernetes cluster consists of master and worker nodes.
Each node must have at least one interface connected to a network.
Each interface must have an address configured.
The hosts must have a unique hostname set as well as a unique Mac address.
You should note this especially if you created the VMs by cloning from existing ones.
There are some ports that needs to be opened as well.
These are used by the various components in the control plane.
The master should accept connections on 6443 for the API server.
The worker nodes.
Kube control tool.
External users and all other control plane components.
Access the kube API server via this port.
The Kubelets on the master and worker nodes.
Listen on port 10250.
Yes.
In case we didn't discuss this, the Kubelets can be present on the master node as well.
The kube scheduler requires port 10259 to be open.
The kube controller manager requires port 10257 to be open.
The worker nodes expose services for external access on port 30,000 to 32,767, so this should be open
as well.
Finally, the etcd server listens on port 2379 if you have multiple master nodes.
All of these ports need to be open on those as well.
And you also need an additional port 2380 open so the etcd clients can communicate with each other.
The list of ports to be opened are also available in the Kubernetes documentation page.
So consider this when you set up networking for your nodes and your firewalls or iptables rules or network
security group in a cloud environment such as GCP or Azure or AWS.
And if things are not working, this is one place to look for while you're investigating.
Head over to the practice session and explore the networking setup in the existing environment.
Keep these commands handy while you look for information.
We will start with simple exercises where you will explore an existing Kubernetes cluster and view information
about the interfaces, IPS, hostnames, ports, etc. this will help you familiarize with the environment
and look for information in the future sections.
Going forward, we will get into more challenging exercises.
For now, let's start slow.

--- Important Note about CNI and CKA Exam ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Explore Environment ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Explore Environment (optional) ---

Instructor: For the first question,
it's asking us how many nodes are part of this cluster.
So we can do this by running a kubectl get nodes
and we can see there's two nodes, control-plane and node01.
So I'll select two.
What is the internal IP address
of the controlplane node in the cluster?
So we're gonna run the same command, kubectl get nodes,
but this time passing a -o wide.
That's gonna give us a little bit more information.
And what we specifically want is the INTERNAL-IP column.
So this is gonna give us the internal IP address,
which is what it's asking for.
So for under controlplane, we can see it's 192.5.114.3.
So I'll select that.
What is the network interface
configured for cluster connectivity on control-plane node?
So here, I'm going to run the command.
So there's two commands,
you can either do ip address, or you can do ip link.
It doesn't matter which one you use,
each one will give you the same information.
So we do ip address and what you want to do
is find the interface that has this specific IP.
So we will go down and we'll see one 114.3.
And if you go through all the interfaces,
when we get down to eth0,
we could see that it's got the one 114.3.
So this IP address is bound to this interface.
So this is what's gonna be used for cluster connectivity.
So I'll select eth0.
Now, it's asking for what is the MAC address
of the interface on the control-plane?
So it's asking us what's the MAC address
of the interface of eth0.
So we're already here, we've already got the output open.
So we can just run this right here.
So this is the answer, 72:03, it's gonna be this guy.
But if you wanted to, you could also run ip address show
and then the name of the interface.
So if you just wanted to see
the information for this interface
without it cluttering your screen, you could do show eth0.
And that's gonna give us all of the same information,
but just for this interface.
Now it's asking us,
what is the IP address assigned to node01?
So we'll do kubectl get nodes -o wide.
And now, we grab the INTERNAL-IP of node01,
which is the one 114.6.
So I'll grab, that's this guy right here.
And so I'll grab one 114.6.
What is the MAC address assigned to node01?
So we're gonna do the same steps for node01.
I'm gonna SSH to that one first.
So now we're on node01 and I can just do an ip address.
And we gotta look for the one 114.6.
So if I scroll down, we can see one 114.6,
that's also eth0 on node01.
And then, if you take a look
at the MAC address for that interface,
we can see it's 72:06.
So I'll select 72:06.
The next question is asking us,
we use the Containerd as our container runtime.
What is the interface/bridge created by on that host?
So this is asking specifically, you know,
back on the controlplane, we'll do ip address, or ip link.
And we wanna look for the bridge/interface
that the Containerd is gonna be using,
so that's going to be the cni0.
Now, I know that's what's going to be the bridge/interface,
but if you didn't know
that that was a bridge/interface on a Linux host,
what you can do is you can run this command,
ip address show.
So this is gonna show you, you know,
based off a certain criteria
what interfaces you're interested in
and you type in type and bridge.
So this is gonna show you
all of the bridge interfaces on this machine.
And so here,
you can see the only bridge interface is cni0,
so we'll select cni0.
What is the state of interface cni0?
So we've already got this information up.
If you just scroll to the right,
you should see a state of UP, right here.
The next question is asking us,
if you were to ping Google from the control-plane node,
what route does it take?
Basically, it's asking us what is the IP address
of the default gateway?
So I'm gonna do a ip route.
This is gonna list all of the routes on this host
and we can see that the default route
is via 172.25.0.1 on eth1 interface.
So that's the IP address of the default gateway, 172.25.0.1.
So basically, anytime you send a request
to anybody that's outside of any of the following networks,
which you already have routes for,
it's, by default, going to go to this IP address right here.
The next question is asking us, what is the port
the kube-scheduler is listening on in the controlplane.
So to figure out what port it's listening on,
we're gonna want to use the netstat command
and I recommend you take a look at the different flags
so we can figure out what we want.
And I realize that there's a typo.
Okay, so we do netstat.
Now, a couple of things that we want,
since we want to figure out what port it's listening on,
we want the -l.
This is gonna be display listening server sockets.
Also, I want to be able to do, you know, like a netstat
and then filter based off of, you know, scheduler,
to figure out the schedule process.
So we want to do the -p flag,
which is gonna list out the program name,
so that we can actually grep for the scheduler.
And then finally, the other flag
that I usually like to do, in general,
which is the -n flag here,
which is saying don't resolve the names of the ports, right?
Don't resolve the names of the ports or the IP addresses.
I want to be able to physically see the number,
or then it's going to try to figure out
what is the protocol that uses that specific port.
So let's run those flags.
I'll do -npl, and then I'm gonna do a | grep -i,
the -i means we're going to,
it's going to be case-insensitive,
so it doesn't matter if we capitalize it or not.
And I'll do scheduler.
And we see that the scheduler is listening
on this port right here, 10259.
Now, it's saying notice that the ETCD
is listening on two ports.
Which of these have more client connections established?
And so to do that, we will run the same command,
but this time we're going to grep for ETCD.
All right, so you could see
that we are listening on 2379 and 2381.
So those are the two ports.
And now we want to figure out
how many established connections there are.
So once again, we're gonna do the --help.
We're not gonna be using the listening flag anymore
because we don't care about what's listening.
We wanna find the the established connections.
So we're gonna display all sockets,
that's gonna be the -a.
We're gonna do the -p again,
so we can see all the programs that we can grep for ETCD.
And then, we'll do the n flag, numeric,
so we don't resolve the names.
So now I'll do netstat -npa | grep -i ETCD.
So this is gonna show us all of the established connections.
And this is going to show us
for all the ports, 2379, 2380.
You can see most of the connections are 2379.
You don't see a lot of 2380 zeros.
So we already kind of know the answer,
but let's go ahead and run a command that's going
to actually count the total number of connections.
So I'm gonna do grep -i ETCD,
then I'm gonna do | grep -i
and I'm gonna grep for 2379.
And then we could do a wc -l.
That's gonna count the number of lines.
So we could see there's 67,
and if I change this to 2380, we can see there's one.
So we can see clearly
that the 2379 has way more connections, so I'll select that.
And we could see that this is just saying
that the reason for this is because 2379 is the port
of ETCD to which all control plane components connect to.
2380 is only for peer-to-peer connectivity.
And so that's only used
when you have multiple control plane nodes,
which in this case we don't.
And so that's going to wrap up this lab.

--- Pod Networking ---

In this lecture we discuss about pod networking in Kubernetes.
So far, we have set up several Kubernetes master and worker nodes and configured networking between
them.
So they are all on a network that can reach each other.
We also make sure the firewall and network security groups are configured correctly to allow for the
Kubernetes control plane components to reach each other.
Assume that we have also set up all the Kubernetes control plane components, such as the cube API server,
the etcd servers, kubelets, etc. and we are finally ready to deploy our applications.
But before we can do that, there is something that we must address.
We talked about the network that connects the nodes together, but there's also another layer of networking
that is crucial to the clusters functioning, and that is the networking at the pod layer.
Our Kubernetes cluster is soon going to have a large number of pods and services running on it.
How are the pods addressed?
How do they communicate with each other?
How do you access the services running on these parts internally from within the cluster, as well as
externally from outside the cluster.
These are challenges that Kubernetes expects you to solve.
As of today, Kubernetes does not come with a built in solution for this.
It expects you to implement a networking solution that solves these challenges.
However, Kubernetes has laid out clearly the requirements for pod networking.
Let's take a look at what they are.
Kubernetes expects every pod to get its own unique IP address, and that every pod should be able to
reach every other pod within the same node using that IP address.
And every pod should be able to reach every other pod on other nodes as well, using the same IP address.
It doesn't care what IP address that is and what range or subnet it belongs to.
As long as you can implement a solution that takes care of automatically assigning IP addresses and
establish connectivity between the pods in a node as well as pods on different nodes, you're good without
having to configure any Nat rules.
So how do you implement a model that solves these requirements?
Now there are many networking solutions available out there that does this, but we have already learned
about networking concepts routing, IP address management, namespaces and CNI.
So let's try to use that knowledge to solve this problem by ourselves first.
This will help in understanding how other solutions work.
I know there is a bit of repetition, but I'm trying to relate the same concept and approach all the
way from plain network namespaces on Linux all the way to Kubernetes.
So we have a three node cluster.
It doesn't matter which one is master or worker.
They all run pods either for management or workload purposes.
As far as networking is concerned, we're going to consider all of them as the same.
So first let's plan what we're going to do.
The nodes are part of an external network and has IP addresses in the 192.168.1. series, node one is
assigned 11, node two is 12, and node three is 13.
Next step.
When containers are created, Kubernetes creates network namespaces for them to enable communication
between them.
We attach these namespaces to a network.
But what network?
We've learned about networks that can be created within nodes to attach namespaces.
So we create a bridge network on each node and then bring them up.
It's time to assign an IP address to the bridge interfaces or networks.
But what IP address.
We decide that each person network will be on its own subnet.
Choose any private address range, say ten 244.11244.2 and ten 244.3.
Next we set the IP address for the bridge interface.
So we have built our base.
The remaining steps are to be performed for each container and every time a new container is created.
So we write a script for it.
Now, you don't have to know any kind of complicated scripting.
It's just a file that has all commands we will be using, and we can run this multiple times for each
container.
Going forward.
To attach a container to the network, we need a pipe or virtual network cable.
We create that using the IP link add command.
Don't focus on the options as they are similar to what we saw in our previous lectures.
Assume that they vary depending on the inputs.
We then attach one end to the container and another end to the bridge.
Using the IP link, set command with an assigned IP address using the IP addr command, and add a route
to the default gateway.
But what IP do we add?
We either manage that ourselves or store that information in some kind of database.
For now, we will assume it is 10.244 .1.2, which is a free IP in the subnet.
We discuss about IP address management in detail in one of the upcoming lectures.
Finally, we bring up the interface.
We then run the same script, this time for the second container with its information, and gets the
container connected to the network.
The two containers can now communicate with each other.
We copy the script to the other nodes and run the script on them to assign IP address and connect those
containers to their own internal networks.
So we have solved the first part of the challenge.
The pods all get their own unique IP address and are able to communicate with each other on their own
nodes.
The next part is to enable them to reach other pods on other nodes.
Say for example, the pod at ten 244 1.2 on node one wants to ping pod 10 to 4 4.2.2 on node two.
As of now, the first has no idea where the address ten 244.2.2 is because it is on a different network
than its own, so it routes to node one IP as it is said to be the default gateway.
Node one doesn't know either, since 10 to 44 .2.2 is a private network on node two.
Add a root to node ones routing table to route traffic to 10 to 44 .2.2 via the second node's IP at
192.168.1.12.
Once the root is added, the blue pod is able to ping across.
Similarly, we configure root on all hosts to all the other hosts with information regarding the respective
networks within them.
Now this works fine in this simple setup, but this will require a lot more configuration as and when
your underlying network architecture gets complicated.
Instead of having to configure routes on each server.
A better solution is to do that on a router if you have one in your network, and point all hosts to
use that as the default gateway.
That way, you can easily manage routes to all networks in the routing table on the router.
With that, the individual virtual networks we created with the address ten .244.1.0 slash 24.
On each node now form a single large network with the address 10.244.0.0 slash 16.
It's time to tie everything together.
We performed a number of manual steps to get the environment ready with the bridged networks and routing
tables.
We then wrote a script that can be run for each container that performs the necessary steps required
to connect each container to the network.
And we executed the script manually.
Of course, we don't want to do that, as in large environments where thousands of pods are created
every minute.
So how do we run this script automatically when a pod is created on Kubernetes?
That's where CNI comes in.
Acting as the middleman.
CNI tells Kubernetes that this is how you should call a script as soon as you create a container, and
CNI tells us this is how your script should look like.
So we need to modify the script a little bit to meet CNI standards.
It should have an add section that will take care of adding a container to the network, and a delete
section that will take care of deleting container interfaces from the network and freeing the IP address,
etc..
So our script is ready.
The container runtime on each node is responsible for creating containers.
Whenever a container is created, the container runtime looks at the CNI configuration passed as a command
line argument when it was run, and identifies our scripts name.
It then looks in the CNI bin directory to find our script, and then executes the script with the add
command and the name and namespace ID of the container, and then our script takes care of the rest.
We will look at how and where the CNI is configured in Kubernetes in the next lecture, along with practice
tests.
For now, let's set from the Pod Networking Concepts lecture.
Hopefully that should give you enough knowledge on inspecting networking within pods in a Kubernetes
cluster.
We will see how other solutions do the same thing that we did in the upcoming lectures.

--- CNI in kubernetes ---

This lecture will discuss about CNI in Kubernetes.
In the prerequisite lectures we started all the way from the absolute basics of network namespaces.
Then we saw how it is done in Docker.
We then discussed why you need standards for networking containers and how the container network interface
came to be.
And then we saw a list of supported plugins available with CNI.
In this lecture we will see how Kubernetes is configured to use these network plugins.
As we discussed in the prerequisite lecture, CNI defines the responsibilities of container runtime
as per CNI container runtimes.
In our case, Kubernetes is responsible for creating container network namespaces, identifying and
attaching those namespaces to the right network by calling the right network plugin.
So where do we specify the CNI plugins for Kubernetes to use?
The CNI plugin must be invoked by the component within Kubernetes that is responsible for creating containers,
because that component must then invoke the appropriate network plugin after the container is created,
the component that is responsible for creating containers is the container runtime.
The two good examples are Containerd and Cri-o.
Not that Docker was the original container runtime, which was later replaced by an abstraction called
container D, which we kind of explained in the beginning of this course.
Now, we discussed earlier that there are many network plugins available today.
How do you configure these container runtimes to use a particular plugin?
First of all, the network plugins are all installed in the directory op cni bin.
So that's where the container runtimes find the plugins.
But which plugin to use and how to use it is configured in the directory forward slash forward slash
CNI forward slash net d.
There may be multiple configuration files in this directory that's responsible for configuring each
plugin.
If you look at the CNI bin directory, you'll see that it has all the supported CNI plugins as executables
such as the bridge, DHCP, flannel, etc. the CNI config directory has a set of configuration files.
This is where container runtime looks to find out which plugin needs to be used.
In this case it finds the bridge configuration file.
If there are multiple files here, it will choose the one in alphabetical order.
If you look at the bridge conf file, it looks like this.
This is a format defined by the CNI standard for a plugin configuration file.
Its name is minute.
Type is bridge.
It also has a set of other configurations which we can relate to.
The concepts we discussed in the prerequisite lectures on bridging, routing and masquerading in Nat.
D is gateway defines whether the bridge interface should get an IP address assigned so it can act as
a gateway.
The IP masquerade defines if a Nat rule should be added for IP masquerading.
The iPam section defines iPam configuration.
This is where you specify the subnet or range of IP addresses that will be assigned to pods and any
necessary routes.
The type host local indicates that the IP addresses are managed locally on this host, unlike a DHCP
server maintaining it remotely.
The type can also be set to DHCP to configure an external DHCP server.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice exercises and practice working with CNI in Kubernetes.

--- Lab - CNI ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Explore CNI (optional) ---

Instructor: So, for the first question,
it's asking us to inspect the kubelet service
and identify the container runtime endpoint
that's set for this Kubernetes cluster.
So, I'm gonna do a ps -aux | grep -i kubelet.
And we can see there's a lot of information.
So I'm gonna further drill that down,
hence, I'm gonna grep for container -runtime.
And we can see the --container-runtime-endpoint flag
is set to unix:///var/run/containerd/containerd.sock.
So I will select this one.
What is the path configured with all binaries
of CNI supported plug-ins?
So all of the plug-ins
are going to be stored in /opt/cni/bin.
And so, if I then do an ls,
we can see all of the binaries here.
So, it's going to be /opt/cni/bin.
Identify which of the below plugins is not available
in the list of available CNI plugins on the host?
So let's see, vlan, we have vlan there.
We have, let's see, cisco, do we have cisco?
Doesn't look like we have cisco.
Let's just double check if the other two are there.
So bridge, we've got bridge.
Dhcp, we've got dhcp.
So cisco is not there.
What is the CNI plugin
configured to be used on this Kubernetes cluster?
So to see that, we can just do a ls /etc/cni/net.d.
So this is going to tell us
which plugin has been configured,
and we could see it's flannel.
So I'll select flannel.
And what binary executable file
will be run by the kubelet
after a container and its associated namespaces are created?
So if I cat that file, and let me actually move into there.
Here we can see that the binary
that it's gonna run is flannel.
And then after that, it's gonna run portmap.
So the answer is flannel.
And that's gonna match up with this binary here.
So we'll say flannel.
And that's going to wrap up this lab.

--- ipam weave ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we discussed about IP address management.
So how does IP address management work in Kubernetes.
This section does not concern the IP address assigned to the nodes in the network.
We can manage that on your own or with your own external iPam solutions.
What this section covers is how are the virtual bridge networks in the nodes assigned an IP subnet,
and how are the pods assigned an IP?
Where is this information stored and who is responsible for ensuring there are no duplicate IPS assigned?
Let's start with the Who.
Let's ask CNI as they are the ones who define the standards.
CNI says it is the responsibility of the CNI plugin, the network solution provider, to take care of
assigning IPS to the containers.
Remember the basic plugin we built earlier?
We actually took care of assigning IP addresses within this plugin.
There was a section for assigning IP to the container network namespace.
But how do we manage these IPS?
Now?
Kubernetes doesn't care how we do it, we just need to do it by making sure we don't assign any duplicate
IPS and manage it properly.
An easy way to do it is to store the list of IPS in a file, and make sure we have necessary code in
our script to manage this file properly.
This file would be placed on each host and manages the IPS of pods on those nodes.
Instead of coding that ourselves in our script, CNI comes with two built in plugins to which you can
outsource this task to.
In this case, the plugin that implements the approach that we followed for managing the IP addresses
locally on each host is the host local plugin, but it is still our responsibility to invoke that plugin
in our script.
Or we can make our script dynamic to support different kinds of plugins.
The CNI configuration file has a section called iPam, in which we can specify the type of plugin to
be used, the subnet and route to be used.
These details can be read from our script to invoke the appropriate plugin, instead of hard coding
it to use host local every time.
Well, for this lecture, head over to the Practice Test and explore iPam in the CNI plugin.

--- Lab - Networking CNIs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Service Networking ---

In this lecture we will discuss about service networking.
In the previous lectures we talked about pod networking, how bridge networks are created within each
node, and how pods get a namespace created for them, and how interfaces are attached to those namespaces,
and how pods get an IP address assigned to them within the subnet assigned for that node.
And we also saw through routes or other overlay techniques, we can get the pods in different nodes
to talk to each other, forming a large virtual network where all pods can reach each other.
Now, you would rarely configure your pods to communicate directly with each other.
If you want a pod to access services hosted on another pod, you would always use a service.
Let's quickly recap the different kinds of services to make the orange pod accessible to the blue pod.
We create an orange service.
The orange service gets an IP address and a name assigned to it.
The blue pod can now access the orange pod through the Orange Services IP or its name.
We'll talk about name resolution in the upcoming lectures.
For now, let's just focus on IP addresses.
The blue and orange pod are on the same node.
What about access from the other pods on other nodes?
When a service is created, it is accessible from all pods on the cluster, irrespective of what nodes
the pods are on.
While a pod is hosted on a node, a service is hosted across the cluster.
It is not bound to a specific node.
But remember the service is only accessible from within the cluster.
This type of service is known as cluster IP.
If the orange pod was hosting a database application that is to be only accessed from within the cluster,
then this type of service works just fine.
Say, for instance, the purple pod was hosting a web application to make the application on the pod
accessible.
Outside the cluster, we create another service of type node port.
This service also gets an IP address assigned to it and works just like cluster IP.
As in all the other pods can access this service using its IP.
But in addition, it also exposes the application on a port on all nodes in the cluster.
That way, external users or applications have access to the service.
So that's the topic of our discussion for this lecture.
Our focus is more on services and less on pods.
How are the services getting these IP addresses and how were they made available across all the nodes
in the cluster?
How is the service made available to external users through a port on each node?
Who is doing that and how and where do we see it?
So let's get started.
Let's start on a clean slate.
We have a three node cluster.
No pods or services yet we know that every Kubernetes node runs a kubelet process which is responsible
for creating pods.
Each kubelet service on each node watches the changes in the cluster through the kube API server, and
every time a new pod is to be created, it creates the pod on the nodes.
It then invokes the CNI plugin to configure networking for that pod.
Similarly, each node runs another component known as kube proxy.
Kube proxy watches the changes in the cluster through kube API server, and every time a new service
is to be created, kube proxy gets into action.
Unlike pods, services are not created on each node or assigned to each node.
Services are a cluster wide concept.
They exist across all the nodes in the cluster.
As a matter of fact, they don't exist at all.
There is no server or service really listening on the IP of the service.
We have seen that pods have containers, and containers have namespaces with interfaces and IPS assigned
to those interfaces with services.
Nothing like that exists.
There are no processes or namespaces or interfaces for a service.
It's just a virtual object.
Then how do they get an IP address, and how were we able to access the application on the pod through
service?
When we create a service object in Kubernetes, it is assigned an IP address from a predefined range.
The kube proxy components running on each node gets that IP address and creates forwarding rules on
each node in the cluster, saying any traffic coming to this IP, the IP of the service should go to
the IP of the pod.
Once that is in place, whenever a pod tries to reach the IP of the service, it is forwarded to the
pods IP address, which is accessible from any node in the cluster.
Now remember, it's not just the IP, it's an IP and port combination.
Whenever services are created or deleted, the kube proxy component creates or deletes these rules.
So how are these rules created?
Kube proxy supports different ways, such as user space, where kube proxy listens on a port for each
service, and proxies connections to the pods by creating ipvs rules.
Or the third and the default option, and the one familiar to us is using iptables.
The proxy mode can be set using the proxy mode option while configuring the kube proxy service.
If this is not set, it defaults to iptables.
So we'll see how iptables are configured by kube proxy and how you can view them on the nodes.
We have a pod named DB deployed on node one.
It has IP address 10.244.1.2.
We create a service of type cluster IP to make this pod available within the cluster.
When the service is created, Kubernetes assigns an IP address to it.
It is set to 10.103.132.104.
This range is specified in the kube API servers option called Service Cluster IP range, which is by
default set to 10.0.0.0 slash 24.
In my case, if I look at my kube API server option, I see it is set to 10.96.0.0 slash 12.
That gives my services IP anywhere from 10.96.0. 0 to 1 0.111.255.255.
A relative point to mention here.
When I set up my pod networking, I provided a Pod network Cidr range of 10.244.0.0 16, which gives
my pod's IP addresses from 10 to 40 40. 0 to 1 244.255.255.
The reason I brought this up here is because whatever range you specify for each of these networks,
it shouldn't overlap, which it doesn't in this case.
Both of these should have its own dedicated range of IPS to work with.
There shouldn't be a case where a pod and a service are assigned the same IP address.
So getting back to services, that's how my service got an IP address of 10.103.132.104.
You can see the rules created by kube proxy in the iptables Nat table.
Output.
Search for the name of the service as all rules created by kube proxy have a comment with the name of
the service on it.
These rules mean any traffic going to the IP address.
Ten 103132.104 on port 3306, which is the IP of the service, should have its destination address changed
to 10 to 44 .1.2 and port 3306, which is the IP of the pod.
This is done by adding a Nat rule to iptables.
Similarly, when you create a service of type node port, kube proxy creates iptables rules to forward
all traffic coming on a port on all nodes to the respective backend ports.
You can also see kube proxy create these entries in the kube proxy logs itself.
In the logs you will find what proxy it uses.
In this case it's iptables and then adds an entry when it added a new service for the database.
Note that the location of this file might vary depending on your installation.
If you don't see these entries, you must also check the verbosity level of the process as well.
Well, that's it about service networking.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Lab - Service Networking ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Service Networking (optional) ---

Instructor: So, the first question it's asking us,
"What network range are the nodes in the cluster a part of?"
So, what this is asking us,
what is the IP address of the nodes?
Not the pods or the services, but the nodes itself.
So, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do
a kubectl get nodes -o, and I'm gonna do wide.
And I'm gonna look for the internal IP of my nodes.
So, I'm on the control plane, so 192.16.10.10.
And so now if I take a look at the interfaces on this node
I could do an IP add.
And we're gonna see all of the interfaces.
And so, if we go down to ethernet zero or ethernet one,
we wanna look for whichever interface has this IP address
which is ethernet zero, which has 192.6.10.10.
So, the subnet is going to be 192.168.10.0/24.
24 means that the last eight bits, so the last octet
is going to be reserved for the host addresses.
So we want 192.168...
Sorry, 192.6.10.0/24.
So that's what all of the nodes are gonna be using.
What is the range of IP addresses
configured for pods on this cluster?
So first of all, we have to see
what we're doing from a networking perspective.
And so, I'm gonna just do a kubectl
get all --all-namespaces
just to see everything that's deployed.
And if we look at the kube system namespace,
we could see that we have a weave pod.
So for networking, we're using weave.
So I'm actually gonna take a look at the logs of that pod
to see if it's gonna give us some information
about what IP addresses are gonna be used
for the pods in our cluster.
So, I'll do a kubectl logs.
I'll grab one of the weave pods.
And I'm just gonna start at the top
and just kind of scroll my way down
until I see a log message that tells us
what subnet's gonna use.
And what we wanna do is look for something like ipalloc
for IP allocation,
and we can see ipalloc range 10.244.0.0/16.
So, any pods that you deploy,
they're gonna be part of this subnet here.
So, the answer is 10.244.0.0/16.
Now, the next question is asking,
"What is the IP range configured
for the services within the cluster?"
And to see the IP address range for services,
what we wanna do is take a look
at the configuration of the API server.
So the API server,
it's manifests are gonna be located in /etsy,
I think it's kubernetes/manifests.
And we're gonna look at the kube-apiserver.
And we're gonna go to the top
and there should be a certain flag that specifies
the service range or the IP address range for the services.
And here we go, service-cluster-ip-range
which is 10.96.0.0/12.
Next question's asking us how many cube proxy pods
are deployed in this cluster?
So, I'm gonna do a kubectl get pods -n kube-system.
We could see that we have two kube-proxy pods.
So, I'll select two.
What type of proxy is the kube-proxy configured to use?
Well for this, well, let's take a look
at the kube-proxy pods themselves
and we'll see if the logs tell us anything.
So, I'll do kubectl logs, and I'll grab one of these pods.
And I'm just gonna look through the logs
to see if it tells us what type of proxy it's using.
So, detecting node IP address using IP tables proxy.
Okay, so this is probably the answer right here
using IP tables proxy.
So, let's select IP tables.
And finally, it's asking how does the Kubernetes cluster
ensure that the kube-proxy pod
runs on all nodes in the cluster?
Now, just knowing based off of this question,
you know, what is the methodology that we use
to normally deploy on every single node in a cluster?
Usually it's a DaemonSet.
But let's confirm that's the case.
So, I'm gonna do a kubectl get all -- all-namespaces
and I'm just gonna look for anything with kube-proxy.
So obviously under pods I see the kube-proxies, that's fine.
Under services, there's nothing there.
Under DaemonSet looks like we do have a kube-proxy.
So, there's nothing under Deployment.
Nothing under ReplicaSet, it's under DaemonSet.
So, that means that we are using a DaemonSet
to deploy a kube-proxy pod onto every single node.
And so, that's going to wrap up this lab.

--- DNS in kubernetes ---

In this lecture we will discuss about DNS in the Kubernetes cluster.
If you are new to DNS, make sure you go through the prerequisites section on DNS where we discuss what
DNS is, what are the tools used for working with DNS, such as host Nslookup and the Dig utility,
and the different types of DNS records like a, CNAME, etc. and we also saw how to set up our own DNS
server using DNS.
In this lecture we will see what names are assigned to what objects.
What are service DNS records, pod DNS records?
What are the different ways you can reach one pod from another?
And in the next lecture we will see how Kubernetes implements DNS in the cluster.
So we have a three node Kubernetes cluster with some pods and services deployed on them.
Each node has a node name and IP address assigned to it.
The node names and IP addresses of the cluster are probably registered in a DNS server in your organization.
Now how that is managed, who accesses them are not of concern in this lecture.
In this lecture, we discuss about DNS resolution within the cluster between the different components
in the cluster, such as pods and services.
Kubernetes deploys a built in DNS server by default when you set up a cluster.
If you set up Kubernetes manually, then you do it by yourself.
We will see how that is done and how it is configured in the next lecture.
As far as this lecture is concerned, we will see how it helps pods resolve other parts and services
within the cluster.
So we don't really care about nodes.
We focus purely on pods and services within the cluster.
As long as our cluster networking is set up correctly.
Following the best practices we learned so far in this section, and all pods and services can get their
own IP address and can reach each other, which should be good.
Let's start with just two pods and a service.
I have a test pod on the left with the IP set to 1234.1.5, and I have a web pod on the right with the
IP set to 1244.2.5.
Looking at their IPS, you can guess that they're probably hosted on two different nodes, but that
doesn't really matter as far as DNS is concerned.
We assume that all ports and services can reach each other using their IP addresses.
To make the web server accessible to the test port, we create a service.
Rename it Web Service.
The service gets an IP ten 10737.188.
Whenever a service is created, the Kubernetes DNS service creates a record for the service.
It maps the service name to the IP address.
So within the cluster, any pod can now reach this service using its service name.
Remember, we talked about namespaces earlier that everyone within the namespace address each other
just with their first names, and to address anyone in another namespace, you use their full names.
In this case, since the test pod and the web pod and its associated service are all in the same namespace,
the default namespace.
You are able to simply reach the web service from the test pod using just the service name web service.
Let's assume the web service was in a separate namespace named apps.
Then to refer to it from the default namespace, you would have to say WebService dot apps.
The last name of the service is now the name of the namespace.
So here WebService is the name of the service, and apps is the name of the namespace for each namespace.
The DNS server creates a subdomain.
All the services are grouped together into another subdomain called SVC.
So what was that about?
Let's take a closer look.
Web service is the name of the service, and apps is the name of the namespace.
For each namespace.
The DNS server creates a subdomain with its name.
All pods and services for a namespace are thus grouped together within a subdomain in the name of the
namespace.
All the services are further grouped together into another subdomain called SVC.
So you can reach your application with the name Web service SVC.
Finally, all the services and pods are grouped together into a root domain for the cluster, which
is set to cluster dot local by default, so you can access the service using the URL web service dot
svc cluster local.
And that's the fully qualified domain name for the service.
So that's how services are resolved within the cluster.
What about pods?
Records for pods are not created by default, but we can enable that explicitly.
We will see that in the next lecture.
Once enabled, records are created for pods as well.
It does not use the pod name though.
For each pod, Kubernetes generates a name by replacing the dots in the IP address with dashes.
The namespace remains the same and type is set to pod.
The root domain is always cluster dot, local.
Similarly, the pod in the default namespace gets a record in the DNS server with its IP converted to
a hostname.
Ten 240 415 and namespace set to default type is pod and the root is cluster dot local.
This resolves to the IP address of the pod.

--- CoreDNS in Kubernetes ---

In this lecture we will discuss how Kubernetes implements DNS in the cluster.
In the previous lecture, we saw how you can address a service or pod from another pod.
In this lecture we will see how Kubernetes makes that possible.
Say you were given two pods with two IP addresses.
How would you do it?
Based on what we learned in the prerequisite lectures on DNS?
An easy way to get them to resolve each other is to add an entry into each of their Etsy hosts file
on the first pod.
I would say the second pod web is at 10.244.2.5.
And on the second pod.
I would say the first pod test is at 10.244 .1.5.
But of course, when you have thousands of pods in the cluster and hundreds of them being created and
deleted every minute, this is not a suitable solution.
So we moved these entries into a central DNS server.
We then point these pods to the DNS server by adding an entry into their Etsy resolv.conf file, specifying
that the Nameserver is at the IP address of the DNS server, which happens to be 1.96.0.1.
In this case, every time a new pod is created, we add a record in the DNS server for that pod so that
other pods can access the new pod and configure the resolv.conf file in the pod to point to the DNS
server, so that the new pod can resolve other pods in the cluster.
This is kind of how Kubernetes does it, except that it does not create similar entries for pods to
map pod name to its IP address, as we have seen in the previous lecture.
It does that for services for pods.
It forms hostnames by replacing dots with dashes in the IP address of the pod.
Kubernetes implements DNS in the same way it deploys a DNS server within the cluster.
Prior to version 1.12, the DNS server implemented by Kubernetes was known as kube DNS.
With Kubernetes version 1.12, the DNS server is called DNS.
We took a brief look at DNS in one of the prerequisite lectures.
So how is the DNS setup in the cluster.
The DNS server is deployed as a pod in the kube system namespace in the Kubernetes cluster.
Well, they are deployed as two pods for redundancy as part of a replica set.
They're actually a replica set within a deployment, but it doesn't really matter.
But we'll just see.
Core DNS as a pod in this lecture.
This pod runs the core DNS executable, the same executable that we ran when we deployed core DNS ourselves.
Core DNS requires a configuration file.
In our case we used a file named core file.
So does Kubernetes.
It uses a file named Core file located at Etsy core DNS.
Within this file you have a number of plugins configured.
The ones highlighted in orange plugins are configured for handling errors, reporting, health monitoring,
metrics, cache, etc. the plugin that makes core DNS work with Kubernetes is the Kubernetes plugin,
and that is where the top level domain name of the cluster is set.
In this case cluster dot local.
so every record in the core DNS DNS server falls under this domain.
With the Kubernetes plugin, there are multiple options.
The pods option you can see here is what is responsible for creating a record for pods in the cluster.
Remember we talked about a record being created for each pod by converting the IPS into the format.
That's disabled by default, but it can be enabled with this entry here.
Any record that the DNS server console.
For example, say a pod tries to reach w-w-w-what google.com, it is forwarded to the nameserver specified
in the DNS pods.
Etsy Resolv.conf file.
The Etsy resolv.conf file is set to use the nameserver from the Kubernetes node.
Also note that this core file is passed in to the pod as a config map object.
That way, if you need to modify this configuration, you can edit the config map object.
We now have the core DNS pod up and running using the appropriate Kubernetes plugin.
It watches the Kubernetes cluster for new pods or services, and every time a pod or service is created,
it adds a record for it in its database.
Next step is for the pods to point to the core DNS server.
What address do the pods use to reach the DNS server?
When we deploy the DNS solution, it also creates a service to make it available to other components
within the cluster.
The service is named as kube DNS.
By default, the IP address of this service is configured as the Nameserver on pods.
Now you don't have to configure this yourself.
The DNS configurations on pods are done by Kubernetes automatically when the pods are created.
Want to guess which Kubernetes component is responsible for that?
The Kubelet.
If you look at the config file of the Kubelet, you will see the IP of the DNS server and domain in
it.
Once the pods are configured with the right name server, you can now resolve other pods and services.
You can access the web service using just web service or web service default or web service default
or web service default SVC cluster.
If you try to manually look up the web service using Nslookup or the Host Web Service command, it will
return the fully qualified domain name of the web service, which happens to be Web Service default
SVC cluster local.
But you didn't ask for that.
You just set web service.
So how did it look up for the full name?
It so happens the Resolv.conf file also has a search entry which is set to default cluster local as
well as SVC local and cluster dot local.
This allows you to find the service using any name, web service or web service default or web service
default.
However, note that it only has search entries for service, so you won't be able to reach a pod the
same way.
For that, you need to specify the full FQDN of the pod.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice test and practice working with DNS on a Kubernetes cluster.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Lab - CoreDNS in Kubernetes ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Explore DNS (optional) ---

-: Okay, in this video we're gonna look at
CoreDNS in Kubernetes.
So the first question is to identify the DNS solution
implemented in this cluster.
So let's do set my alias.
K equals kubectl.
Let's do get pods.
Dash n kube system.
We see all the pods in the kube system in space
and we see that we have the CoreDNS pods.
So these are so, so we use CoreDNS as the DNS solution.
Okay, the next question is how many pods
of the DNS server are deployed?
So we see that there are two,
so that's the answer to that.
There are two plots.
Now, what is the name
of the service created for accessing CoreDNS?
So the name of the service created for accessing CoreDNS,
so let's do a service that is
we see in the kube system namespace
and we see that there's only one service called KubeDNS.
So that's the service that's used
for accessing the DNS server.
So that is kube-DNS.
Now, what is the IP
of the CoreDNS server that should be configured
on the pods to resolve services.
So all the pods should have the IP of the CoreDNS service.
And that IP is 10.96.0.10.
So that's the IP of this service.
So that's this one.
Now, where is the configuration file located
for configuring the CoreDNS service?
So let's look at the CoreDNS service.
Let's do a system.
We see that we have these two pods.
So let's take a closer look at those pods
to a describe pod in the
kube system namespace.
And we see additional information.
And here is the container that runs the CoreDNS service
and it's, this is image that runs the, the CoreDNS, 1.7.0.
And these are the port that's that are exposed.
But here, if you look at here
these are the arguments that are passed
to the CoreDNS container.
So the config file is at /etc/CoreDNS/corefile.
So that's etc, CoreDNS, core file.
So that's the configuration file.
How is this core file passed into the CoreDNS pod?
So is it pulled from gate when it starts
or is it configured as a conflict map object?
Does it come built in,
or is it stored on the, on the master node?
So if you look at this, the path etc CoreDNS,
let's see if there are any mounts.
So there are mounts.
So we have a etc CoreDNS mount
and it says that it is coming from config volume.
And we can also see this
if we do,
so let's say we do a
kubectl, get pod, and we look at it in the yaml format.
So if you look at it this way, scroll up. Okay.
So this is the spec section.
So you can ignore all of this.
Always look at the spec section.
And we have the containers.
So for the container, we have the arguments
that we just saw, the image and everything.
If you scroll down, you'll see the volume mounts.
So you have volume amounts here.
And this the etc CoreDNS is the volume mount,
and it's coming from a config volume.
And so if you have volume mounts, then you have volumes.
So you scroll down and receive volumes.
So this is where the volumes are configured.
And the volume for config mount is the config volume.
And here you see,
you have the core file and CoreDNS
CoreDNS is the config volume.
So config map.
So this is what indicates,
this is what tells us that it's loaded from a config map.
Okay, so the next question is, what is the name
of the config map object created for core file?
So for this volume, this config map,
the name of the config map is CoreDNS.
So that's, that's the name of the config map.
Now, what is the root domain
or zone configured for this kubernetes cluster?
So to find that out, we have to look into that config map.
So let's do that now.
So let's do a get config map
in the kube system namespace.
So we have the CoreDNS.
So let's do a describe,
describe config map
in the kube system namespace.
These, these are the DNS config for, for Kubernetes.
And right here, this is the root, this is the root domain.
So let's cluster.local.
Now we have deployed a set of pods and services
in the default and payroll namespaces, to inspect them
and go to the next question, right?
So let's do that.
So let's look at get pods.
And we see that there are indeed the hr
the simple web app and tests.
So there's, there are four pods
and then there's also another namespace
called payroll.
And in the payroll namespace
there's another called web, right?
So there are multiple applications, so that's fine.
Now, what name can be used to access the HR web server
from the test application?
So here, here we have the HR web server
and here we have the test application.
So we wanna access the HR web server
from the test application.
So you can execute the curl command,
or you can test applications also have a UI.
So let's, let's use the UI.
I like the UI this is the UI of the test application.
And we'll use this to run a connectivity test.
And, but first, how do you access the HR application, right?
So if you do a HR
and assuming it's on 8080, it's not working.
So we had to find out what is the service
that's used to access this.
So let's do a kubectl get svc
because that's in the default namespace,
and we see that there are multiple services.
You, you have the test service and the webservice.
I'm assuming the test service is for the test application.
And I'm not sure if the webservice
is for the HR application.
So let's do a describe on the webservice.
Service is missing.
svc.
And we see that the selector here, name equals HR right?
So that indicates that the webservice
is a service for the HR application.
So that, that's what connects them two.
So it's webservice.
So I'm gonna use webservice and the port, if you see is 80.
So that's what I'm gonna do.
So I'm going to use webservice and the port 80
and let's run a test.
Okay, so it says this is the HR service.
So that's, that's good.
So that confirms that.
So it's, it's webservice.
That's what is the answer to this question.
Okay, now, which of the names cannot be used to
access the HR service from the test pod?
So we know that to access the, the HR service from
the test pod we just used webservice, that works.
Does webservice.default work, it will because
we are in the default namespace.
So let's try that, default.
Yep. So that works.
Does webservice.default.svc work?
.svc
Yes, because svc stands for service
and webservice is a service,
in the default namespace.
So that's, that's fine.
The next one is webservice.default.pod.
So let's try pod.
So that fails.
So that's not, that's not the right kind of convention.
So this is the right answer to this question.
Now, which of the below name can be used to access
the payroll service from the test application?
So the payroll service as we know is,
it must be in the payroll
namespace, right?
So let's explore that.
Let's do a kubectl, get pod, payroll.
And then so there's a webservice there.
And then let's do a get svc - n payroll.
And we see a webservice here.
So this is, let's make sure that this is for that.
So let's do a kubectl describe, svc, webservice.
In the payroll service.
The payroll namespace.
Okay and, we see that the selector's name equals web app.
So that's, that's for this.
So yes, the webservice is used for the web application
in the payroll service.
So in the payroll namespace, we'll just assume
that this is the payroll service.
So which of the below name can you use to access
the payroll service from the test application?
So the test application we know
is in the default namespace.
So if you do webservice from the default namespace
it's going to go to the HR app.
That's not what we want.
We want this, we wanna access the webservice
in the payroll namespace.
So web is not the correct answer.
Webservice.default is gonna go to the HR app,
webservice.payroll because it's in the payroll namsespace.
So let's try that.
And it says this is a payroll.
So yeah, so it's webservice.payroll.
So that's the answer to this question.
Now, which of the below name cannot be used to
access the payroll service from the test application?
So webservice.payroll, you know it works,
webservice.payroll.svc.cluster.
So payroll.svc.cluster.
So that doesn't work because it should either be,
webservice.payroll or it should be webservice.payroll.svc
Or it should be webservice.payroll.svc.cluster.local
because cluster.local is the root domain, the root zone.
So you should always, you should either use
cluster.local or you shouldn't use anything at all.
So cluster is something that doesn't work.
Now we just deployed a web server, web app
that accesses a database MySQL server.
So let's check that out.
Kubectl, get deployment.
And we see that there's a web app, indeed.
And then it accesses a database, MySQL server,
however the web server
is failing to connect to the database.
So we don't, we don't see a MySQL server here,
so let's do a, get,
let's do a kubectl, get pods
and all namespaces so we can see all the pods.
So we can ignore most of these.
But if you look at these two, so there are two namespaces
and we have the web app, the pod that runs the web app.
So it says web app. So this is web app.
So this is, this is our application.
And if you look here, we have the MySQL on database here.
So it is in the payroll service, payroll namespace.
So basically this web app is trying to connect
to the MySQL pod in the payroll namespace.
But it's not able to access.
Look at the applications and the web server interface
can be seen by clicking the tab web server
at the top of the terminal.
So here we have the web server.
So just open that, and as you can see it is
in a failed state.
So if you look at the environment variables
that were passed to it,
it says the db host is MySQL, db database not set,
db user route, db password, all of that.
So it says the name does not resolve.
So the issue is with the name.
So if you look at this, it says MySQL, so MySQL is a name.
So the web app here is trying to get to the
MySQL service here, which is in the payroll namespace.
So it's not gonna be able to do that.
Let's first see the service configured for it
in the payroll namespace.
So we have the MySQL service, so the service is there
but for the web app to reach the MySQL service
it would need to say MySQL.payroll, right?
So that, that's how it should be.
So let's see where that is configured.
So let's do a kubectl describe deployment web app.
Web app.
And we see that it has environment variables
configured here.
So MySQL route and, and the password.
So let's do
edit, deploy and, and edit it.
Now of course this password here,
this is not a best practice.
It should be going in through
as a secret or some, some other, you know, a safer method.
But we just did that here.
Just keep, just to keep this simple.
So we have the environment here, which is MySQL,
and we're gonna change that to MySQL.payroll.
Okay, so you could just say MySQL.payroll
or MySQL.payroll.svc.
Or MySQL.payroll.svc.cluster.local.
Okay, so let's save that.
Let's check the pods.
Let me see that the older one is terminating
and then the new one is already running.
So let's go back and check the status here.
We see that it's a success.
So now we have db host, which is MySQL.payroll.
And so that's, that's good.
So let's check the work.
Okay, so that, that was successful.
Now the next question is, from the HR pod,
run a nslookup and the MySQL service
and redirect the output to a file.
So from the HR pod.
So we're gonna do a exec HR and then give a command.
And what the command we need to run is nslookup,
we'll do a MySQL and it says it's not found,
so we know that since the HR app is in the default namespace
and MySQL is in the payroll namespace,
we should be appending payroll to the name.
Okay, so that's, that's got us the
the IP address of the MySQL port.
And you can also see the full name of the
MySQL service here.
So let's redirect that to this path.
Let's make sure that it's redirected successfully
and see, see the output. Okay? Yep.
So that's, that's the end of this lab.
Alright, thank you very much.

--- Ingress ---

In this lecture we will discuss ingress in Kubernetes.
One of the common questions that students reach out usually is regarding services and ingress.
What's the difference between the two.
And when to use what.
So we're going to briefly revisit services and work our way towards ingress.
We will start with a simple scenario.
You're deploying an application on Kubernetes for a company that has an online store selling products.
Your application will be available at, say, My Online store.
You build the application into a Docker image and deploy it on Kubernetes cluster as a pod.
In a deployment, your application needs a database.
So you deploy a MySQL database as a pod and create a service of type cluster IP called MySQL service
to make it accessible to our application.
Your application is now working to make the application accessible to the outside world.
You create another service, this time of type node port and make your application available on a high
port on the nodes notes in the cluster.
In this example, a port of 30080 is allocated for the service.
The users can now access your application using the URL http colon slash slash IP of any of your nodes,
followed by port 30080.
That setup works and users are able to access the application whenever traffic increases.
We increase the number of replicas of the pod to handle the additional traffic, and the service takes
care of splitting traffic between the pods.
However, if you have deployed a production grade application before, you know that there are many
more things involved in addition to simply splitting the traffic between the pods.
For example, we do not want the users to have to type in the IP address every time.
So you configure your DNS server to point to the IP of the nodes.
Your users can now access your application using the URL.
My online store and port 30080.
080.
Now, you don't want your users to have to remember port number either.
However, service node ports can only allocate high numbered ports which are greater than 30,000.
So you then bring in an additional layer between the DNS server and your cluster, like a proxy server
that proxies requests on port 80 to port 30080 on your nodes.
You then point your DNS to this server, and users can now access your application by simply visiting
my online store.com.
Now this is if your application is hosted on prem in your data center.
Let's take a step back and see what you could do if you were on a public cloud environment like Google
Cloud Platform.
In that case, instead of creating a service of type node port for your web application, you could
set it to type load balancer.
When you do that, Kubernetes would still do everything that it has to do for a node port, which is
to provision a high port for the service.
But in addition to that, Kubernetes also sends a request to Google Cloud Platform to provision a network
load balancer for this service.
On receiving the request, GCP would then automatically deploy a load balancer configured to route traffic
to the service ports on all nodes and return its information to Kubernetes.
The load balancer has an external IP that can be provided to users to access the application.
In this case, we set the DNS to point to this IP and users access the application using the URL.
My online store.com.
Perfect.
Your company's business grows and you now have new services for your customers.
For example, a video streaming service.
Now you want your users to be able to access your new video streaming service by going to my online
store.com.
Watch your developers develop the new video streaming application as a completely different application,
as it has nothing to do with the existing one.
However, to share the cluster's resources, you deploy the new application as a separate deployment
within the same cluster, you create a service called Video Service of type Load balancer Kubernetes
provisions port 382 for this service and also provisions a network load balancer on the cloud.
The new load balancer has a new IP.
Remember, you must pay for each of these load balancers, and having many such load balancers can inversely
affect your cloud bill.
So how do you direct traffic between each of these load balancers based on the URL that the user types
in?
You need yet another proxy or load balancer that can redirect traffic based on URLs to the different
services.
Now every time you introduce a new service, you have to reconfigure the load balancer.
And finally, you also need to enable SSL for your applications so your users can access your application
using Https.
Now where do you configure that?
It can be done at different levels, either at the application level itself or at the load balancer
level, or at the proxy server level.
But now you don't want your developers to implement it in their applications, as they would do it in
different ways, and it's an additional burden for them to develop additional code to handle that.
You want it to be configured in one place with minimal maintenance.
Now that's a lot of different configuration.
And all of these becomes difficult to manage when your application scales.
It requires involving different individuals in different teams.
You need to configure your firewall rules for each new service, and it's expensive as well as for each
service.
And new cloud native load balancer needs to be provisioned.
Wouldn't it be nice if you could manage all of that within the Kubernetes cluster, and have all that
configuration as just another Kubernetes definition file that lives along with the rest of your application
deployment files?
That's where ingress comes in.
Ingress helps your users access your application using a single, externally accessible URL that you
can configure to route traffic to different services within your cluster based on the URL path.
At the same time, implement SSL security as well.
Think of ingress as a layer seven load balancer built into the Kubernetes cluster that can be configured
using native Kubernetes primitives, just like any other object that we have been working within Kubernetes.
Now remember, even with ingress, you still need to expose it to make it accessible outside the cluster.
So you still have to either publish it as a node port or with a cloud native load balancer.
But that is just a one time configuration.
Going forward, you're going to perform all your load balancing, SSL, and URL based routing configurations
on the ingress controller.
So how does it work?
What is it?
Where is it?
How can you see it and how can you configure it and how does it load balance?
How does it implement SSL without ingress?
How would you do all of these?
Well I would use a reverse proxy or a load balancing solution like nginx or HAProxy or traffic, and
I would deploy them on my Kubernetes cluster and configure them to route traffic to other services.
The configuration involves defining URL routes, configuring SSL certificates.
Ingress is implemented by Kubernetes in kind of the same way you first deploy a supported solution,
which happens to be any of these listed here, and then specify a set of rules to configure ingress.
The solution you deploy is called as an ingress controller, and the set of rules you configure are
called as ingress resources.
Ingress resources are created using definition files like the ones we have been using to create pods,
deployments, and services earlier in this course.
Now remember, a Kubernetes cluster does not come with an ingress controller by default.
If you set up a cluster following the demos in this course, you won't have an ingress controller built
into it.
So if you simply create ingress resources and expect them to work, they won't.
Now let's look at each of these in a bit more detail.
As I mentioned, you do not have an ingress controller on Kubernetes by default, so you must deploy
one.
What do you deploy?
There are a number of solutions available for ingress.
A few of them being GCE, which is Google's Layer seven HTTP Load Balancer, nginx, contour, HAProxy,
traffic and Istio.
Out of these, GCE and nginx are currently being supported and maintained by the Kubernetes project,
and in this lecture we will use nginx as an example.
These ingress controllers are not just another load balancer or nginx server.
The load balancer components are just a part of it.
Ingress controllers have additional intelligence built into them to monitor the Kubernetes cluster for
new definitions or ingress resources, and configure the nginx server accordingly, and nginx controller
is deployed as just another deployment in Kubernetes.
So we start with a deployment definition file named nginx ingress controller with one replica and a
simple pod definition template.
We will label it nginx ingress and the image.
Use these nginx ingress controller.
With the right version.
This is a special build of index.
Built specifically to be used as an ingress controller in Kubernetes, so it has its own set of requirements
within the image.
Within the image, the nginx program is stored at location nginx ingress controller.
So you must pass that as the command to start with nginx controller service.
If you have worked with nginx before, you know that it has a set of configuration options such as a
path to store the logs, keepalive threshold, SSL settings, session timeout, etc. in order to decouple
these configuration data from nginx controller image, you must create a config map object and pass
that in.
Now remember the config map object need not have any entries at this point.
A blank object will do, but creating one makes it easy for you to modify a configuration setting.
In the future.
You will just have to add it in to this config map and not have to worry about modifying the nginx next
configuration files.
You must also pass in two environment variables that carry the pod's name and namespace it is deployed
to.
The nginx service requires these to read the configuration data within the pod, and finally specify
the ports used by the ingress controller, which happens to be 80 and 443.
We then need a service to expose the ingress controller to the external world.
So we create a service of type node port with the nginx ingress label selector to link the service to
the deployment.
As mentioned before, the ingress controllers have additional intelligence built into them to monitor
the Kubernetes cluster for ingress resources and configure the underlying nginx server when something
is changed.
But for the ingress controller to do this, it requires a service account with the right set of permissions.
For that, we create a service account with the correct roles and role bindings.
So to summarize, with the deployment of the nginx ingress image, a service to expose it, a config
map to feed nginx configuration data, and a service account.
With the right permissions to access all of these objects, we should be ready with an ingress controller
in its simplest form.
Now on to the next part of creating ingress resources.
An ingress resource is a set of rules and configurations applied on the ingress controller.
You can configure rules to say simply forward all incoming traffic to a single application, or route
traffic to different applications based on the URL.
So if user goes to my online store, then route to one app, or if the user visits the watch URL, then
route to the video app.
Or you could route user based on the domain name itself.
For example, if the user visits where my online store.
Com then route to the web app or route to the video app.
Let us look at how to configure these in a bit more detail.
The ingress resource is created with a Kubernetes definition file.
In this case, ingress dot YAML.
As with any other object, we have API version kind metadata and spec.
The API version is networking.
IO v1 kind is ingress.
We will name it ingress where and under spec we have default backend.
So the traffic is of course routed to the application services and not pods directly.
The default backend section defines where the traffic will be routed to.
So if it's a single backend then you don't really have any rules.
You can simply specify the service name and port of the backend where service.
Create the ingress resource by running the kubectl create command.
View the created ingress by running the kubectl get ingress command.
The new ingress is now created and routes all incoming traffic directly to the where service.
You use rules when you want to route traffic based on different conditions.
For example, you create one rule for traffic originating from each domain or hostname.
That means when users reach your cluster using the domain my online store.com, you can handle that
traffic using rule one when users reach your reach a cluster using domain name where my online store.
You can handle that traffic using a separate rule.
Use rule three to handle traffic from.
Watch my online store.com and say use a fourth rule to handle everything else.
And just in case you didn't know, you could get different domain names to reach your cluster by adding
multiple DNS entries, all pointing to the same ingress controller service on your Kubernetes cluster.
Now, within each rule, you can handle different paths.
For example, within rule one, you can handle the where path to route the traffic to the cloud application,
and a watch path to route the traffic to the video streaming application.
And a third path that routes anything other than the first two to a 404 not found page.
Similarly, the second rule handles all traffic from where my online.com.
You can have path definition within this rule to route traffic based on different paths.
For example, say you have different applications and services within the apparel section for the shopping
or returns or support when a user goes to my online store.
By default there is the shopping page, but if they go to exchange or support URL, there is different
back end services.
The same goes for rule three where you route traffic to Watch.mandolin.com.
To the video streaming application.
But you can have additional paths in it, such as movies or TV.
And finally, anything other than the ones listed here will go to the fourth rule that will simply show
a 404 not found error page.
So remember, you have rules at the top for each host or domain name, and within each rule you have
different paths to route traffic based on the URL.
Now let's look at how we configure ingress resources in Kubernetes.
We will start where we left off.
We start with a similar definition file this time under spec.
We start with a set of rules.
Now our requirement here is to handle all traffic coming to my online com and route them based on the
URL path.
So we just need a single rule for this since we are only handling traffic to a single domain name,
which is my online store in this case.
Under rules, we have one item, which is an HTTP rule in which we specify different paths.
So paths is an array of multiple items, one path for each URL.
Then we move the back end we used in the first example.
Under the first path, the backend specification remains the same.
It has a service name and port.
Similarly, we create a similar backend entry to the second URL path for the watch service to route
all traffic coming in through slash watch URL to the watch service.
Create the ingress resource using the kubectl create command.
Once created, view additional details about the ingress resource by running the kubectl describe ingress
command.
We.
You now see two backend URLs under the rules and the back end service they are pointing to just as we
created it.
Now if you look closely in the output of this command, you see that there is something about a default
backend.
end.
What might that be?
If a user tries to access a URL that does not match any of these rules, then the user is directed to
the service specified as a default back end.
In this case, it happens to be a service named default HTTP backend, so you must remember to deploy
such a service.
Now back in your application, say a user visits the URL, my online store or com slash listen or slash
eat and you don't have an audio streaming or a food delivery service.
You might want to show them a nice message.
You can do this by configuring a default back end service to display this 404 not found error page.
The third type of configuration is using domain names or host names.
We start by creating a similar definition file for ingress.
Now that we have two domain names, we create two rules, one for each domain.
To split traffic by domain name, we use the host field.
The host field in each rule matches the specified value within the domain name used in the request URL,
and routes traffic to the appropriate backend.
In this case, note that we only have a single backend path for each rule, which is fine.
All traffic from these domain names will be routed to the appropriate backend, irrespective of the
URL path used.
You can still have multiple path specifications in each of these to handle different URL paths.
Now let's compare the two.
Splitting traffic by URL had just one rule, and we split the traffic with two paths to split traffic
by hostname, we used two rules and one path specification in each rule.
Well that's it for this lecture.
Let us now head over to the practice test section and practice working on ingress.
There are two types of labs in this section.
The first one is where an ingress controller resources and applications are already deployed.
And you basically view and walk through the environment, gather data and answer questions.
Towards the end, you would create or modify ingress resources based on needs.
In the second practice test, you will be deploying an ingress controller and resources from scratch.
Good luck and hope you enjoy the labs and I will see you in the next one.

--- Article: Ingress ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Ingress - Annotations and rewrite-target ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - CKA Ingress Networking - 1 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Ingress Networking 1  - (optional) ---

-: Okay, so let's go through this lab on ingress controller.
So we have deployed ingress controller resources
and applications to explore the setup.
So let's first look at the environment.
So let's look at the nodes, there's a single node.
Let's look at the deployments, so there are no deployments.
Let's check all name spaces,
so there are deployments in other name spaces.
So there's, there are deployments in the app space.
The ingress NGINX space, the Kube system space.
Let's look at the ingress controller
which is usually in Kube system name space.
And we see, nope, it's in the ingress namespace,
which is, sorry, it's given here.
So it's ingress NGINX
and yeah, well so we see the ingress controller
and the other pods right here.
Okay, so which namespace
is the ingress controller deployed in?
So if you on a get pod slash a command
and we see all the pods and we see
the ingress controller here
and we see that it's part of the ingress NGINX name space.
So it's the ingress NGINX name space.
Now what is the name of the ingress controller deployment?
So the ingress controller deployment,
this is the name of the deployment,
so we can also verify that,
but by doing a get deploy
in the ingress NGINX name space
and we see that it's ingress NGINX controller.
So it's ingress NGINX controller.
Now which name space are the applications deployed in?
So we have, yeah,
so here we have the pods for the application
and we have the video wear
and the default backend application.
They're in the app space name space.
How many applications are deployed
in the app space name space?
So we see that there are three pods.
So that's three applications.
Now, which name space is the ingress resource deployed in?
So let's look at the ingress resource.
So we'll do a Kubectl git ingress,
and we'll look at all name spaces.
And we see that we have the ingress wear watch resource
and it's in the app space name space.
Now what is the name of the ingress resource?
So the name of the ingress resource is ingress wear watch.
Now, what is the host configured on the ingress resource?
So you can see that right here.
So it's set to star.
That means all hosts are applicable,
or all or any hosts.
What backend is the wear path on the ingress configured in?
So let's look at the ingress,
ingress wear watch,
ingress resource in a bit more detail.
So that's in the app space, name space.
And here we see the additional details
and we can see the rules.
We see the host and then we see the path.
And we have the wear and the watch path,
and what backend is the wear path configured to?
So the wear is configured
to the wear service, so that's the wear service.
At what path is the video streaming application
made available on the ingress?
So the video streaming application,
the video service, is at the watch path.
So, watch is the answer.
Now if the requirement does not match any
of the configured paths
what service are the requests forwarded to?
So we know that if the requirement,
if it does not match any of these
is going to go to the default backend.
So here it is default HTTP backend,
that's the service, so that's default HTTP backend.
Now view the ingress service using the tab
at the top of the terminal.
So here we have ingress service
and if you look at it, it gives us a 404 not found error.
So what, which page do you see?
So we see a 404 error page.
Now view the applications by appending
the wear and watch to the URL that you opened.
So let me open this.
And we have a wear,
which is this, so this is the wear application.
And then we have the watch.
This is the,
apparently this is the video streaming application, okay?
You're requested to change the URLs
at which the applications are made available.
So make the video streaming application available at stream.
So for that, let's go and edit the ingress resource.
So let's just replace describe with edit.
And this one should be fairly easy.
So here we have the paths.
So we have the wear path for the wear service
and then we have the watch path for the watch service.
So all we have to do is replace this
with stream and let's save that.
So it's immediately replace.
If you refresh the watch path,
now we get 404 error and we replace it
with stream and we now get the video streaming application.
So let's check that out.
Yep, so that's successful.
Now view the video application using the stream,
which we just, we already did so let's skip that.
Now a user is trying to view the eat URL
on the ingress service.
Which paid would he see?
So we know that there's nothing called eat.
So let's just verify.
So there's nothing called eat here
but we don't know if it is there in another space.
So let's try that out.
Eat, so it doesn't, there's nothing.
So it's a 404 error, so there's a 404 error.
Now due to increased demand,
your business decides to take on a new venture,
you acquired a food delivery company,
their applications have been migrated over to your cluster.
So inspect the new deployments in the app space name space.
Okay, so let's check out deploy in
the app space namespace.
And we see that we have the default backend.
We have food along with the video and wear applications.
So this is the new application.
Now you're requested to add a new path to your ingress
to make the food delivery application available
to your customers.
So make the new application available at eat.
So we wanna make it available at eat
so we know that we need to find out
the service that this is exposed on.
So let's try and find that.
So instead of deployment,
let's look at services in the same name space
and we see that we have the food service.
And let's also verify and make sure that the port is 80 80.
So it's food service at port 80 80.
So I'm gonna copy that
and let's go and edit the ingress resource again.
So we have a command for that already, Kubectl edit ingress,
the name of the ingress resource in the app space.
And what we need to do is add an additional path here.
We're going to copy this,
paste that and what we'll do is,
you know that it's food service,
so food service,
and the port number is 80 80,
that's fine, and the path is eat,
and let's save that.
Let's wait for it to finish.
Okay, and let's try and refresh,
and we see the food service application.
Okay, let's check the work.
Okay now view the food delivery application using eat
which we already did.
Now a new payment service has been introduced
since it is critical,
the new application is deployed in its own name space.
So identify the name space.
Okay, so let's do a get pods dash A
and see what that new name space is.
So we have something,
we have a new name space called critical space.
So let's do a get deploy in the critical space.
And we see that we have a web app pay.
So that's, this is the new deployment.
So identify the name space, so that's critical space.
What is the name of the deployment of the new applications?
We just found that out.
It's called web app pay.
You requested to make the new application available at pay.
So identify and implement the best approach
to making this application available on
the ingress controller and test to make sure it's working.
Look into annotations as well.
Okay, so we know that for the app space applications
we have the ingress resource in the app space.
Now we cannot use that resource
to add something in another space.
So what we're going to do is we're gonna create
an ingress resource for this critical space itself.
So, or at least that's the best practice.
It is the best practice is to create,
for different teams who may be having access
to different name spaces to create
their own ingress resource right,
so that should be the approach that we should be using.
So you can assume that maybe, you know
those who are working on this application only has access
to this name space,
but those who are working on the web pay application
only has access to this name space.
And so, you know any ingress related resources
that are created would have to be created
in this name space.
So we'll create a new ingress and then we'll set the path
as we did before, we'll set the backend service.
So let's first find out what
the backend service is to
this web pay.
So it's called pay service.
So just like food service, wear service,
this one's called pay service,
and the deployment is web app pay.
So we want to direct traffic that goes to the path pay
which as of now there won't be anything,
and we want to direct that to this pay service on port.
So remember that the port now is 82 82.
So that should be the port, okay?
So let's do a Kubectl create ingress,
and so we do have
an imperative command for that.
Let's do a dash H to see the format.
So we're going to, you know there are multiple examples
and let's just pick the simplest one, right?
So Kubectl create ingress, the name and then the rule.
And that's basically it.
So let's do that.
So the name, let's see if there's a name given.
So there's no name given here.
So we could, you know, give it any name.
So this is going to be ingress pay maybe,
and then it's in the name space.
Remember that this is all has to be in the critical space.
And then the rule is that anything
that goes to, sorry, pay the path pay,
so that's pay here, would go to the pay service.
That's what we just saw.
And the port is 82 82
and we don't have any certs for now
so let's just get rid of this.
So that's the ingress pay.
And so let's check it out git.ingress
in the critical space,
and we see that is indeed created.
Let's take a look at it, ingress
in critical space.
And we see that we have the ingress pay
is gonna catch everything that goes to pay
and then redirect that to pay service, right?
So let's go and try it out here.
But you see that it's still not,
it's not working as expected,
still here's the 404 error.
So let's take a look at the logs
and find out why.
So if you look at the logs
of this application in the critical space,
we have the web pay service,
so the web app pay pod,
then what we're going to do is we're gonna do a logs
for that pod in the critical space.
And we see that these are the requests that are coming in.
It's coming in as pay, right?
So the thing is, these applications may not have a slash pay
at the end, right?
So it should be without this pay.
So what's happening is when you're calling pay
is just the ingress resource is just forwarding
as is, the URL as is, to this application
and this application does not really have a pay path,
so it should just be just slash right?
So let's do that.
So for that we have to put in the ingress,
the annotations and the rewrite rules.
So if you look at this, right, the watch wear
or even the pay service, they're just available at this
they don't have a slash watch or slash wear at the end.
But with the default rule
that the ingress controller creates,
anything that goes to watch is going
to have watch at the end.
Anything that goes to wear is gonna have wear at the end.
So that's why the error.
So we want to put in this rewrite annotation
to get that removed.
So let's copy that,
and let's edit
the ingress pay
in the, what do you call, space,
should have ingress.
And then, so we've gotta add an annotation here.
So annotations go in metadata section here
and we are gonna say to rewrite target.
So this is basically going to
take that out and take out the pay at the end
and then just put slash there.
So that seems to be set.
Okay so when you refresh it
you can actually see that this is working as expected.
Let's check our work.
That's good.
And yep, we've already gone here and verified
that it's working.
Okay, so that's the end of this lab.

--- Lab - CKA Ingress Networking - 2 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Ingress Networking - 2 (optional) ---

-: Hey, In this video,
we're gonna look at ingress networking,
in a bit more detail.
So we'll, we'll try and deploy an ingress controller.
So, we've deployed two applications,
"explore" and "setup".
So let's check that out.
Set,
headings first.
Let's do pause dash a.
And we have, in the app space we have the video
and there applications.
So,
that is now deploying an ingress controller first.
So create a name space called "ingress space".
So let's, so this is what we are going to do
and the first step is to create this name space
called "ingress space".
So we'll do this one step at a time.
So let's do that first.
Create name space ingress space.
Okay, so that's successful.
Now, the NGINX ingress controller
requires a ConfigMap object.
Create a ConfigMap object in the ingress space.
So, we're just gonna create a ConfigMap object.
So we'll do a Q call, create conflict map in this
and the name should be as given here
and genetic configuration.
And the name space is ingress space.
Okay? So that's done.
So if you can see here, so you've just created these two.
Now the NGINX ingress controller requires
a service account.
So create a service account in the ingress space.
Name, the name
of the service account is ingress service account.
So create service account
and the ingress space.
Okay?
We've created the roles
and rule bindings for the service account.
So let's check that out.
Okay, so
get roles.
So we have the ingress role and bindings
we have the ingress role binding
Let's check out
ingress role
in the ingress space.
So we see that there are a number
of resources that are given access to like the policy
Chris name spaces, and these are the works that
the actions that it can perform.
Okay, let's keep going.
Let us now deploy the ingress controller
create a deployment using the file given.
So there's already a file given called ingress controller
and the, you know, the hard stuff is already there in there.
So you have, it's called
it's gonna be called ingress controller.
The service account name that we created is here.
The container that it uses is here.
The arguments that are passed to it is configured
and there are some environment variables as well
and the port that is exposed.
So these are all done.
There are just, there are some issues.
So let's try and let's try and create a file
from this first, Create a deployment from this file first.
So it looks like there are some issues.
So there's, there's an issue online.
36 looks like a yamo issue.
So let's, let's edit the file and try and fix those.
So let's go to line 36.
So right here we see that, yeah
indeed there's an issue with spacing.
So we'll fix that's,
try to create it again
and we see that namespace, ingress dash not found.
So if you look here
the namespace is not properly specified.
So let's try and edit that
and space.
Okay, so let's try and create ingress controller now.
Let's check out the status
in the ingress space.
And it's in a continuing creating state.
Let's give it some time.
And meanwhile we can check the status of our work.
So yeah, it's, it's completed successfully.
So we have now deployed an ingress controller.
Now the next step is to create a service to
make the ingress make ingress available to external users.
Okay, so the ingress controller is ready.
The next step is to create a service called ingress.
So we're going to do, what we're going to
do is our goal is to expose ingress controller, right?
So the easiest way to do that is
deploy dash n ingress space.
It's called ingress controller.
So we're gonna create a service using the exposed command.
So we're gonna do expose and what do we wanna expose?
We wanna expose the ingress controller deployment.
Let's say deploy an ingress controller
in the ingress names ingress space
Right? And
and also there are some specifications given here.
So the name has to be ingress
so pass in a name called ingress.
So let's check out the,
the help just to get a bit of bit more idea.
So we have the exposed command
and then we have the deployment deployment name.
If you want a name for the service,
you can use dash dash name.
That's what we just did.
Can also specify the port, so the port and the target port.
So we wanna use 80, and the target port is also 80
but the expos command does not allow us to
use the node port option.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna create
the service first, and then we're just gonna go in
and edit the node port.
So that's kind of the easiest way to do that.
So we'll just take these
because that's what we are left with.
So let's clear my screen and we're gonna specify the port.
So the port and the target port are both 80,
okay?
So we're gonna do an export
deploy ingress controller in the ingress space.
We'll name it ingress.
And then we have specified these.
We can also specify the type.
So we'll see dash dash type going to be node port.
That's what's given here.
Then we have specified the port and the target port.
The node port cannot be specified, but we specified this.
So, and the right selector.
So expo should take care of using the right
selector for this, for the deployment.
So let's create that.
So it's created to get, as we see in the ingress space
and it's, it's created, it's a node port.
And if you, if you look here at the port that
the node port that it used is 32 7 41.
That's not what we wanted.
So we'll go and edit the service in the ingress space
edit service called ingress.
And here we can see the details.
The only thing we need to do is change this to 3 0 0 8 0.
This is actually a simpler way to create a service
without having to work with the amo files at all.
So that's gonna be useful in the exam.
Let's check.
Okay, so that's successful.
Now the next step is to create the ingress resource to
make the applications available at where and watch
on the ingress service.
So we're gonna create an ingress service.
So we'll do a kubectl create ingress in the app space.
That's where we wanna, that's where the applications are.
And quickly check help.
So this is, is what we used earlier.
So we're gonna do a create
and then give the name of the ingress rule
and then we'll just use this rule to specify the rules.
So,
the name of the ingress resource would just
be ingress and where, and watch.
And then we'll specify the rules.
We don't need the certificate stuff.
So we'll remove that.
So the rules says where
needs to go to the where service.
And then we have another rule.
Again, we're going to remove this.
And this is for the second one.
So we can have multiple rules like this,
watch.
And there's going to go to the watch service.
So I'm not sure if it's called the where and watch service.
I'm just going to park this for now
and let's check the service names in app space.
And we see that, okay, it's the where service
and it's the video service, not the watch service.
And the ports are 80 80.
So let's edit that.
So the watch is called the video service and Port 80 80.
And the where is called the where service.
And let's get rid of this for now.
Okay? So that's created.
Ingress in the app space,
see that it's created.
Let's do a describe ingress.
Ingress,
just to app space.
And we see that the where is is to the where service
and it's identified the, the endpoint for that.
And the watch is to the video service.
And it's identified the endpoints to that.
So let's, let's test it out and see if it's working.
So
let's do a where,
Okay, so it isn't working.
Let's do a watch.
Okay, so let's go and check
out the logs on this applications.
So let's do logs.
Check this out.
And as you can see, the requests aren't even reaching here.
Let's check the other service, right?
So if the requests were coming in
you'd actually see the request coming in.
So the requests aren't hitting, hitting this.
So that's one thing, and let's try and figure out why.
So let's do,
let's look
at the logs of the ingress controller itself.
And the ingress controller
as we know is in the ingress space
just do a logs of this ingress controller,
okay?
And if you look here, there seems to be a lot of logs.
So app space.
So it's definitely hitting the ingress controller
but,
then you see there are three node eights, right?
So the three note eights indicate a redirect, right?
So what's happening is every time we're going here
as you can see the, the browser here
it just keeps redirecting.
So it, it looks like it's going into a too,
and you can see the error here.
So it's going into too many redirects.
So, and that is mainly because it is just
trying to do a redirect on the SSL, right?
So for https, it's trying to do a redirect on https.
So what we need to do is we need to
edit the Ingress service.
Yeah. So here's Ingress service.
We need to edit it
in the app space
to provide in Chris.
And then we need to add the annotations,
so the annotations
for
the rewrite target, because as we discussed earlier
we don't want it to go to a where and watch URL.
And then this is, so to prevent the redirect SSL redirect
we have to add the false, the SSL redirect to false.
So let's, let's edit that and let's try this again.
Okay? So that's, that seems to do the trick.
And it's actually working now.
Okay, let's check our work.
And we've already accessed the application.
Okay? So that's, that's the end of this lab.

--- Introduction to Gateway API (2025 updates) ---

Let's now look at an introduction to gateway API.
Earlier when we spoke about ingress, we spoke about two services sharing the same ingress resource.
What if each service was managed by different teams or even completely different organizations or businesses?
What if the web service was managed by team A and the video service was managed by team B?
In such case, the underlying ingress resource is still a single resource, which can only be managed
by one team at a time.
So in a multi-tenant environment, ingress can pose a challenge.
They would need to coordinate between handling the same ingress resource and might lead to conflicts.
Ingress lacks sufficient support for multi-tenancy.
Another limitation are the options for rules.
Configuration.
Ingress only supports HTTP based rules such as host matching or path matching.
Others like TCP, UDP routing.
Traffic splitting, header manipulation, authentication, rate limiting, and others aren't currently
supported.
These are all configured by the controllers, and these configurations are passed through to the controllers
using annotations like this.
So here you can see some nginx configurations pass through such as SSL redirect, etc. as such, you'll
see real complex annotations specified in different ingress rules such as to configure course.
We have some nginx specification configuration here.
And in the second example we're using traffic controller.
And so we have some traffic related configuration here.
The challenge here as you can see, is that these configurations are very specific to the underlying
controllers nginx and traffic respectively.
And Kubernetes itself is not aware of these settings.
So it can't validate if they are right or wrong.
These configuration are merely passed to the underlying controllers.
So we have different configurations for different controllers for the same use case.
And these configurations can now only be used with these specific controllers.
And that's where gateway APIs come in.
Gateway API is an official Kubernetes project focused on layer four and layer seven routing.
This project represents the next generation of Kubernetes ingress, load balancing, and Service Mesh
APIs.
Now, one of the challenges we discussed with ingress was the lack of support for multi-tenancy.
So we discussed that with different teams accessing the same infrastructure.
How do you provide the flexibility needed by the users while maintaining control by the owners of the
infrastructure?
This is where gateway API introduces three separate objects that are managed by three separate personas.
The infrastructure providers configure the gateway class.
The gateway class defines what the underlying network infrastructure would be, such as the nginx traffic
or other load balancers.
The cluster operators would then configure the gateway, which are instances of the gateway class.
And then we have the HTTP routes created by the application developers.
Now unlike ingress where we only had HTTP routes, here we have TCP route and gRPC route and others.
So let's look at how each of these are created.
First we have the gateway class.
It has the API gateway networking I o v1.
The gateway class.
The name is example class and the controller name is Gateway Controller.
Now remember that like ingress, we must also deploy a controller for gateway.
We will talk about that in a bit.
But note that that name is what you put here under controller name.
Next we have gateway object.
It has the API version set to gateway network I o v1.
Kind is gateway, name is example gateway and it has the gateway class specified, which is the gateway
class we created above.
And then we have the HTTP listeners configured with the HTTP and port 80 And finally we have the escape
route rule, which is again gateway networking.io v1 as the API version kind is HTTP route name is example
HTTP route is the example gateway we defined.
It matches requests coming in with the hostname or example.com, and a rule is configured that has a
path login and the back end service.
It refers to is the example service which is the service on the cluster.
In this example, the HTTP traffic from gateway example gateway with the host header set to w-w-w-what
example.com and the request path specified as login will be routed to the service.
Example svc on port 8080.
So the HTTP route that we saw is a layer seven protocol.
Some of the additional route options available are TLS route, TCP route, UDP route, gRPC route,
etc..
So back to a few limitations that we saw with ingress.
Let's see how those are configured in gateway API.
So earlier we saw that with ingress the basic TLS configuration um goes in the TLS section right here.
And then this is the ingress way.
But to ensure all traffic uses Https well we want to redirect http to https.
We need to use the nginx specific annotation.
So these annotations won't work with other ingress controllers.
So the gateway API approach is much more declarative and structured.
Everything is defined in the proper spec, no annotations needed.
The listeners section clearly shows we are setting up an Https endpoint on port 403.
The TLS configuration is explicit with the mod terminate showing we are terminating TLS at the gateway.
The certificate refs directly reference our TLS secret allowed routes.
Specifies which kinds of routes can attach to this listener, in this case HTTP routes.
Here's another example.
Through nginx specific annotations, we're saying, hey, this is um, a Canary deployment and, uh,
send 20% of the traffic here.
The remaining 80% of traffic automatically goes to the primary ingress, which is another ingress service
that may exist.
But this isn't obvious from looking at this configuration alone, and it only works with nginx.
Other controllers might not understand these annotations because these are specific to nginx.
So the gateway API tells the complete story in one clear configuration, so everything is visible in
one place, no hidden primary configuration needed.
We can see both services app v1 and v2 right there in the backend refs section.
The traffic split is explicitly defined 80% goes to v1, 20% goes to v2.
No annotations needed.
This is a native feature, so this will work the same way across any gateway API implementation.
Now these configurations work with any controller and these are not specific to ingress or anything.
Here's just another example.
So earlier we saw the complex controller specific annotations needed for advanced configurations like
course setting.
Now with GitHub API we can configure these centrally.
No annotations needed.
Everything is defined in this spec.
Course headers are explicitly defined using the response header modifier filter.
The configuration is more readable and self-documenting.
And this will work consistently across any gateway API implementation.
So speaking about gateway API implementation, most controllers have now implemented gateway API or
are on the way to implement it.
Amazon Ex Azure Application gateway for containers.
Contour.
Egress.
Envoy gateway.
Google Kubernetes engine HAProxy.
Kubernetes.
Ingress controller.
Istio.
Nginx.
Gateway.
Fabric.
Traffic proxy are already GA with the implementation and others are on their way.
Well, that's all for this lecture.
Head over to the labs and practice working with gateway API controllers.

--- Practical Guide to Gateway API (2025 Updates) ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates) Lab - Gateway API (2025 Updates) ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

