--- Helm - Introduction ---

Instructor: Let's start by understanding what Helm is.
Now, Kubernetes is awesome
at managing complex infrastructures.
We humans tend to struggle with complexity, though.
Applications that we deploy into our Kubernetes cluster
can become very complicated.
A typical app is usually made up of a collection of objects
that need to interconnect to make everything work.
For example, even a relatively simple WordPress site
might need the following,
a deployment to deploy the pods that you wanna run,
such as MySQL database servers or web servers,
a persistent volume to store the database,
a persistent volume claim,
a service to expose the web server running
in a pod to the internet, a secret to store credentials
like admin passwords and other things,
and maybe even more if you want extra stuff
like periodic backups, jobs and so on.
For every object, we might need a separate YAML file.
Then we need to apply kubectl apply on every YAML file
to get these objects created,
and this can be a tedious task,
but that's not the end of it.
Now imagine we download these YAML files from the internet
and we are not happy with the default,
so we start changing stuff.
The persistent volumes are 20 GB, but we know our website
will need much more storage than that,
so we go to the YAML files
where the PVs and PVCs are declared,
and we change 20 to 100.
More stuff needs to be changed.
Well, we'll have to open up every YAML file
and edit each one according to our needs.
And now, not bad enough yet,
imagine two months go by
and we now have to upgrade some components in our app,
and so we are back
to editing multiple YAML files' declarations again,
with great care
so that we don't change the wrong thing in the wrong place.
Now, sometime later, you wanna delete the app
and we'll need to remember each object
that belongs to our app and delete them all one by one.
Now you might be thinking, Hey, that's not a big deal.
We can just write all object declarations
in a single YAML file and be done with it.
Well, that's true,
but it might make it even harder to find stuff
when you're looking for,
say you wanna troubleshoot an issue,
we'd have to continuously search for stuff
that we need to edit in something
that could be 25 pages of text.
Now, at least in multiple files,
they'd be somewhat organized
and we'd know we'll find deployment related stuff
in the mydeployment.yaml file, for example.
Enter Helm, Helm changes the paradigm.
Kubernetes doesn't really care about our app as a whole.
All that it knows is that we declared various objects
and it proceeds to make each of them exist in our cluster.
It doesn't really know that this persistent volume
and that deployment and that secret
and that service are all part
of a big application called WordPress.
It looks at all the little pieces
that the administrator wanted to have in the cluster
and takes care of each one individually.
Helm, however, is built from ground up
to know about such stuff.
That's why it's sometimes called a package manager
for Kubernetes.
It looks at those objects
as part of a big package as a group,
and whenever we need to perform an action,
we don't tell Helm the objects that it should touch,
we just tell it what package we want to act on,
like our WordPress app package.
And based on the package name,
it then knows what objects it should change and how,
even if there are hundreds of objects
that belong to that particular package.
Now, to make this easier to understand, think about this,
a computer game is contained
in hundreds of thousands of files.
There are a few files with the program's executable code,
other files with audio, game sounds and music,
and other files with graphics, textures, images,
files with configuration data and so on.
Now, imagine we'd have to download each of them separately,
and that would be tedious.
Fortunately, we don't have to go through such horrors
as we get a game installer.
We run it, we choose the directory where we want to install,
we press the install button,
and then the installer does the rest,
putting thousands of files in their proper location.
Helm does a similar thing and more for YAML files
and the Kubernetes objects that make up our application.
We use a single command to install our entire app,
even if it needs hundreds of objects,
Helm proceeds to automatically add every necessary object
to Kubernetes without bothering us with the details.
We can customize the settings we want for our app
or package by specifying desired values at installed time,
but instead of having to edit multiple values
in the multiple YAML files, we have a single location
where we can declare every custom setting.
In a file like values.yaml,
we can change the size of our persistent volumes,
choose the name of our WordPress website,
the admin password, settings for the database engine,
and so on.
We can upgrade our application with a single command.
Helm will know what individual objects need to change
to make this happen.
Helm keeps track of all the changes made to the app files,
and that allows us to roll back
to the previous so-called revision.
We use a single command to uninstall our app,
and it keeps track of all the objects used by each app
so it knows what to remove.
We don't need to remember each object
that belongs to one of our apps anymore
or use 10 separate commands to remove everything.
Helm does all the work.
We will look into these commands in more detail
in the upcoming lectures.
For now, understand that Helm works as a package manager
with Install or Uninstall Wizard,
and also as a release manager
helping us upgrade or rollback applications.
The most important thing
is that it lets us treat our Kubernetes apps as apps
instead of just a collection of objects,
and this takes a huge burden off our shoulders
as we don't have
to micromanage each Kubernetes object anymore.
Helm can do that for us.
Well, that's a quick introduction to Helm.
We have a lot more to discuss.
I'll see you in the next one.

--- Installation and Configuration ---

Instructor: In this section,
we will talk briefly about installing Helm.
And before installing Helm,
you must first have a functional Kubernetes cluster
and kubectl installed and configured on your local computer
with the right login details set up the kubeconfig file
to work with the intended Kubernetes cluster.
Now, Helm can be installed on Linux,
Windows or macOS systems.
We will go over the instructions
on installing Helm on Linux systems in this lecture.
System with Snap can install Helm
using the snap install helm command.
Use the classic option to install
a more relaxed sandbox that gives the app
a bit more access to the whole system.
So rather than strictly isolating it
to its separate environment,
this way, Helm can easily access the kubeconfig file
in your home directory
so it knows how to connect to our Kubernetes cluster.
For APT bases systems, such as the BN or Ubuntu,
follow the instructions to add key and sources list
before installing Helm.
And for PKG, I'll run the pkg install helm command.
Now, all this refer to the latest instructions
from the documentation pages to install Helm
for your version of operating system.
Well, that's all for now.
Head over to the labs and practice working
with installing Helm on our lab environment.

--- Lab: Installing Helm ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- A Quick Note on Helm2 vs Helm3 ---

Instructor: There were some significant changes
when Helm 3 was released compared to Helm 2.
And when you browse through charts and blogs online,
you may come across either of these versions.
So, it is important to understand
the differences between them.
Now, let's look at a brief history of Helm.
Helm 1.0 was first released in February, 2016,
Helm 2.0 in November, 2016,
and Helm 3.0 in November, 2019.
Now, since the initial launch in 2016,
the project has matured, and it got better and better.
The improvements were also made possible by the fact
that Kubernetes itself was improving,
so Helm had more tools at its disposal
it could leverage right off of Kubernetes.
In our lessons, we'll use Helm 3,
which has a simpler and better design
than the previous Helm 2 and is also a bit smarter.
Since Helm 2 was around for a few years,
a lot of users had already been using it,
but there are several important changes
made when Helm 3 was launched.
So, let's take a look at the differences between them.
Helm has a CLI client installed on your local machine
that helps you perform Helm-specific actions
against your Kubernetes cluster.
When Helm 2 was around, Kubernetes lacked features
such as role-based access control
and custom resource definitions.
To allow Helm to do its magic,
an extra component called Tiller
had to be installed in the Kubernetes cluster.
So, whenever you wanted to perform
a Helm specific operation,
your Helm client communicated with Tiller
that was running on some server.
Tiller, in turn, communicated
with Kubernetes and proceeded to take actions
to make whatever you requested happen.
So, Tiller was the middleman, so to speak.
Besides the fact that an extra component
sitting between you and Kubernetes adds complexity,
there were also some security concerns.
By default, Tiller was running in God mode
or otherwise said, it had the privileges
to do anything that it wanted.
This was good since it allowed it
to make whatever changes necessary
in your Kubernetes cluster to install your charts,
but this was bad since it allowed any user with Tiller
access to do whatever they wanted in the cluster.
After cool stuff like role-based access control
and custom resource definitions appeared in Kubernetes,
the need for Tiller decreased,
and so it was removed entirely in Helm 3.
Now, there's nothing sitting between Helm and the cluster.
Furthermore, with RBAC, security is much improved
and any user can be limited in what they can do with Helm.
And before, you had to set these limits in Tiller
and that was not the best option,
but with RBAC built from ground up
to fine-tune user permissions in Kubernetes,
it's now straightforward to do.
As far as Kubernetes is concerned,
it doesn't matter if the user is trying
to make changes within the cluster with kubectl
or with Helm commands, the user requesting the changes
has the same RBAC-allowed permissions,
whatever tool they use.
So, that's a big difference between Helm 2 and 3.
Helm 2 had Tiller and Helm 3 simplifies integration
with Kubernetes by removing Tiller.
The next big difference
is a three-way strategic Merge Patch.
The name might sound intimidating, but don't worry.
At the end of this section,
we'll see it's actually a simple
but very smart thing that can prove quite useful.
Now, Helm has something like a snapshot feature.
Here's an example.
You can use a chart
to install a full-blown WordPress website.
This will create revision number 1 for this install.
Then if you change something, for example,
you upgrade to a newer chart
to upgrade your WordPress install,
you will arrive at revision number 2.
These revisions can be considered something like snapshots,
the exact stage of a Kubernetes package
at that moment in time.
If there's a need, you can return
to revision number 1 through a rollback.
This would get your package app to the same state it was
when you first installed your chart.
New revisions are created
whenever important changes are done with the Helm command.
For example, when we first install a package,
a revision 1 is created.
Then when we upgrade that package, a new revision appears,
that's revision 2 in this case.
And even when we roll back,
a new revision is created, revision 3.
So, that's pretty straightforward.
Helm 2 was less sophisticated
when it came to how it did such rollbacks.
And when a rollback command is issued,
Helm compares the current chart,
which is the chart that has the WordPress image 5.8 in it
with the previous chart,
which is the chart that has a WordPress 4.8 image in it
and realizes that they're different.
So, it applies the original chart
to revert the WordPress image to 4.8.
Now, let's look at another example.
Say we install a WordPress deployment using a Helm chart,
which creates revision 1 just like before.
Then a user manually goes in
and updates the application image
using the kubectl set image command.
So, the application gets updated
and this is done instead of doing the upgrade through Helm.
And this does not create a new revision in Helm,
because the change was not performed through Helm.
When we now roll back, what happens?
As before, Helm compares the current revision
with the previous version.
Since there is only one revision,
Helm does not detect any changes,
and so it does not roll back
or make any changes to the deployment.
So, Helm 2 compares the current chart
with the previous chart to identify the difference
between revisions to make a rollback decision.
And in this case, it doesn't help us,
because the manual change that the user made
is still active.
Helm 3, on the other hand, is more intelligent.
It compares the chart currently in use,
if we had created a revision that is, which we didn't.
The chart we want to revert to,
and also the live state, how our Kubernetes objects
currently look like their declarations in the yaml form,
this is where that fancy three-way
Strategic Merge Patch name comes from.
By also looking at the live state,
it notices that the image version in live is 5.8,
but the image in revision 1
that we want to revert to, it has 4.8.
So, it makes necessary changes to come back
to the original state.
Now, besides rollbacks, there are also things like upgrades
to consider, where Helm 2 was also lacking.
For example, say you install a chart,
but then you make some changes to some
of the Kubernetes objects installed.
It all works nicely until you perform an upgrade.
Helm 2 looks at the old chart
and then the new chart that you want to upgrade to,
and all your changes will be lost since they don't exist
in the old chart or the new chart.
But Helm 3, as mentioned, looks at the charts
and also at the live state,
and it notices that you added some stuff of your own,
so it performs the upgrade
while preserving the anything that you might have added.
Well, that's all for this lecture
and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Helm Components ---

Instructor: Let's look at the different components
of Helm.
Helm has multiple components we'll be working with,
so let's take a look at its general structure, concepts,
and the pieces we'll be working with.
So we have the Helm command line utility on our local system
that we will be using to perform Helm actions
such as installing a chart, upgrading, rollback, et cetera.
Charts are a collection of files,
and they contain all the instructions
that Helm needs to know
to be able to create the collection of objects
that you need in your Kubernetes cluster.
By using charts and adding the objects
according to these specific instructions in the charts,
Helm, in a way, installs applications into your cluster.
When a chart is applied to your cluster,
a release is created.
A release is a single installation of an application
using a Helm chart.
Within each release, you can have multiple revisions,
and each revision is like a snapshot of the application.
Every time a change is made to the applications,
such as an upgrade of the image or change of replicas
or configuration objects, a new revision is created.
Now, just like how we can find
all kinds of images on Docker hub
or Vagrant boxes on the Vagrant Cloud,
if you're familiar with that, you know,
we can find Helm charts in a public repository.
We can easily download publicly available charts
for various applications, and these are readily available
and we can use them to deploy applications on our cluster.
And finally, to keep track of what it did in our cluster,
such as the releases that it installed, the charts used,
revision states and so on, Helm will need a place
to save this data.
This data is known as metadata,
and that is data about data.
Now, it wouldn't be too useful if Helm would save this
on our local computer.
If another person would need to work with our releases
through Helm, they would need a copy of this data.
So instead, Helm does the smart thing
and saves this metadata directly in our Kubernetes cluster
as Kubernetes secrets.
This way, the data survives,
and as long as the Kubernetes cluster survives
and everyone from our team can access it,
so they can do Helm upgrades
or whatever it is that they want to do.
So Helm will always know about everything it did
in this cluster and will be able to keep track
of every action, every step of the way,
since it always has its metadata available.
Now, let's look at each of these in a bit more detail.
Charts are a collection of files,
and they contain all the instructions that Helm needs
to know to be able to create the collection of objects
that you need in your Kubernetes cluster.
By using these charts and adding the objects
according to that specific instructions,
is how, as we discussed,
Helm installs applications into your cluster.
Now, I'll be using two applications throughout this course
to explain concepts.
First is a simple Hello World application,
which is a simple NGINX-based web server
and a service to expose it.
And the other would be a WordPress site,
which is slightly more complex.
Now, the simple web server will help you understand
the concepts in the simplest form.
The WordPress example will help you understand
its real life usage.
For example, in this simple Hello World application,
we have two objects, a deployment and a service.
And most of these you should be able to relate to
what you learned in the Kubernetes course.
It's a standard deployment object that deploys pods
of an image and a service that exposes it
as a node port service, for instance.
However, you might notice the image name
and replicas are specified in a different form.
This is called templating.
The values that go here are part of another file
called as the values.yaml file.
Now in a Helm chart, we'll often be interacting
with a special file.
You see, most of the time we won't need
to build the charts ourselves.
We have hundreds of them already available
to download in the public repository.
But what we'll almost always need to do
or want to do is configure the package
that we installed through that chart.
The values.yaml file
is where the configurable values are stored,
and most of the time,
this is the only file you'll have to modify
to customize the deployment of the application
for your needs.
This is like the settings file
or the inputs file for the Helm chart.
The charts are way more complicated
for a WordPress application with so many files
and very complex templating.
And we will look more into templating
and get into the details about these charts
later in this course, but for now,
we'll stick with simple charts to understand the basics.
Now, when a chart is applied to your cluster,
a release is created.
Now we could ask ourselves why the need
for an additional item?
Why can't we just say we installed a chart to Kubernetes?
Now in the command helm install my-site bitnami wordpress,
we used the chart at Bitnami WordPress
and named the release my-site.
So why not just use a shorter command
like helm install bitnami wordpress and be done with it?
Without specifying a release name.
Well, one simple reason why it makes more sense
to have releases based on charts
is that we can install multiple releases
based on the same chart.
So we can launch a second WordPress website
with a command such as helm install my-SECOND-site
bitnami wordpress.
And since there are two different releases,
they can be tracked separately
and changed independently.
Even though they're based on the same chart as releases,
they're two entirely different entities.
Now, this can be useful in a lot of scenarios.
For example, you can have a release for a WordPress website
that your customers use and another release
for a WordPress website
that is only visible to your internal team of developers.
There they can experiment and add new features
without breaking the main website.
And since the two releases are based on the same chart,
once they get something working correctly
on the development site, they can transfer it
to the main website
since it should work exactly the same way
as the two websites are basically clones
and built the same way.
Now we saw an example
of a very basic chart developed in Helm.
And earlier we saw an example of a chart
to deploy a WordPress application.
And what if we want to deploy a new chart, say,
for deploying Redis or Prometheus, for instance?
Thousands of charts are readily available
at different Helm repositories across the world.
There are different providers
who are hosting Helm repositories such as AppsCode,
Community Operators, TrueCharts, Bitnami, et cetera.
And you don't have to go to each of these repositories
to search for charts.
All of these repositories have listed their charts
in a single location known as the Helm Hub
or Artifact Hub, as it is also known now.
So at Artifacthub.io, you'll find charts
that you can use right away.
As of this recording, there are over 6,300 packages
available there, and you may search
for the chart you're looking for
or browse through available ones,
and sometimes the charts are actually published
by the actual developers of that project.
So you'll see the official
or verified publisher badges in such cases,
and it's preferable you use those when available.
We'll see more about installing charts from repositories
in the upcoming videos and labs.
Well, that's all for now.
I'll see you in the next one.

--- Helm Charts ---

Lecturer: Let's talk a bit more about Helm Charts.
Helm is rather an easy to use command line tool.
You just tell it to install this, uninstall that,
upgrade something, roll back to a previous state and so on.
And it proceeds to do all the heavy lifting
behind the scenes.
It's basically an automation tool where we,
the human operators, specify our desired end result,
the destination, and then it doesn't matter if 5, 10, 20,
or 50 actions are necessary to achieve that end result,
to get to that destination,
Helm will go through all the required steps
without bothering us with the details.
But since in the command line,
we don't give this tool a lot of info except,
"Hey, I want this installed."
How does it know how to achieve this goal?
Helm knows how to do its job
with the help of what are called charts.
Charts are like an instruction manual for it.
By reading and interpreting their contents,
it then knows exactly what it has to do
to fulfill as user's request.
As far as the human operators are concerned,
charts are just a bunch of text files.
Each specific file named in a specific way
has a well-defined purpose.
For example, as discussed before,
in the values.yaml file, we'll find parameters
that we can pass to the chart
so that everything gets installed
with a configuration options set as we desire.
Now, we saw this simple example earlier.
In this case, we have two objects,
a deployment and a service.
And it's a standard deployment that deploys parts
of an image and a service
that exposes it as a node port service.
However, you might notice the image name
and replicas are specified in a different form.
This is called templating.
The values that go here are part of
the values.yam file,
and we will look into templating itself
in more detail later in this course
and how to form these values.
So the two files are templates.
These are customized using the values
from the values.yaml file
to create the final version of files
required to deploy the application
on the Kubernetes cluster.
Apart from the values.yaml file,
every chart also has a chart.yaml file.
This contains information about the chart itself,
such as the chart API version,
which could be either V1 or V2.
There's also an app version, which is used to specify
the version of the application.
And then we have the name of the chart,
a description, type of chart, et cetera.
And these are just a few of the many properties
a chart.yaml file has.
So that's what we will look at next.
So let's look at the chart.yaml file
of this WordPress site
as an example to understand it better.
The API version is the API version of the chart.
Now, when Helm 2 was around, this field did not exist.
And when Helm 3 was introduced,
it came with the additional features
that introduced changes in the yaml file,
which were not present earlier.
For example, the dependencies section
and the type fields that you see here
were not available in Helm 2.
So Helm 3 needed a way to differentiate
between charts built in the past
and charts built for Helm 3.
And so this field was first introduced by Helm 3.
With this field, Helm 3 can now differentiate
between old charts built for Helm 2
and new charts built specifically for Helm 3.
So old charts will either not have this value set at all,
or if you build a chart specifically for Helm 2 today,
then it would need to be set to V1.
And all charts built for Helm 3
will have this value set to V2.
So let's say you build a chart with the API version
set to V2, but use it on Helm 2,
then Helm 2 will not even consider this field,
and will simply ignore any additional fields
that were not only available for Helm 3,
resulting in unexpected results.
So bottom line is
if you are developing a chart going forward,
just make sure that you set this to V2
because you're most likely going to write charts
for Helm 3.
And if you're looking at a chart
that does not have this value set,
then it is very likely
that the chart was built for Helm 2.
Okay, so next is the app version.
Now the app version is a version of the application
that's inside of this chart.
So in this case, the application is WordPress.
So this refers to the version of WordPress
that this chart will deploy.
This field is for informational purposes only,
and then there is version,
which is the version of the chart itself.
So every chart must have its own version,
and this is independent of the version of the app
that this chart will deploy.
This helps in tracking changes to the chart itself.
The next is the name of the chart,
which is set to WordPress, followed by a description.
And the next is type.
So there are two types of charts,
application and library.
So application is the default type,
which is all the charts
that we create for deploying applications.
And library is the type of chart that provides utilities
that help in building charts.
So we'll discuss more about that later.
The next are dependencies.
So the WordPress application is a two tier application
that has the WordPress server and a database server.
The database in this example is a MariaDB database.
So MariaDB has its own Helm charts.
So we could simply add it
as a dependency to our application.
This way we don't have to merge the manifest files
of MariaDB or any other database
into this particular chart.
And then there is a list
of keywords associated with this project.
This can be helpful when searching for this chart
in a public chart repository.
And then there is maintainers section,
which is information about the maintainers.
And there are optional fields like Home
and Icon that are used to share a URL
of the homepage of the project and a URL to an icon.
So a chart directory has the following structure.
It has a templates directory that has the template files
that we just talked about.
It also has the values.yaml
and the chart.yaml file we just talked about.
And apart from these, there may also be a license file
that has the chart license information,
a readme file that has information about the chart
in a human readable form.
And there could also be a charts directory
that has other charts that this chart is dependent upon.
And we will talk about chart dependency
later in this course.
Well, that's all for now.
I'll see you in the next one.

--- Working With Helm - Basics ---

Instructor: With Helm installed,
let's check out what we can do with it.
All operations are run
using the Helm command line interface.
To invoke the Helm command line interface,
simply run the Helm command.
Simply running the help command,
running help with the Helm option
will list helpful information.
This can serve as a quick way to remember
what the right command is to do something.
For example, say we want to restore a release
to a previous version after a failed upgrade,
we might wonder, wait, what was the command to do that?
Helm restore? And we then see in this list
that the correct command is actually helm rollback.
So it's much faster than
looking on the internet for the answers
since it's immediately accessible
from the command line interface.
We can also use this help feature for sub commands.
For example,
if we want to see what repository related actions
we can take,
the command helm repo help
will show us how we can add chart repository
or list chart repository
or remove repository and so on.
And we can even dig deeper
and learn about what a sub command does
and what parameters it supports.
So now that we are familiar with the basics of Helm CLI,
let's see what we can do with it.
So let's assume we are in a scenario
where we need to launch a WordPress website in Kubernetes,
and we know that we need a chart
to easily deploy the WordPress application.
So earlier we learned that
all the charts are stored
in the online chart repository at artifacthub.io.
So we go to the website and search for the chart manually.
To ensure we get a high quality chart,
we can try to find one that has the official
or a verified publisher badge.
So once the chart is selected,
we'll see a detailed page with all the info,
and we may want to know about this chart.
So it starts out with the exact commands
that we need to use to install the chart
into our Kubernetes cluster,
then continues with what software components this uses.
And further down the page,
we can even see some of
the most important configurable settings that we can tweak.
It's up to chart developers
to mention what they think is important
in this description page.
Another way to search for a chart
is from the command line itself.
Use the helm search command to search for WordPress.
But note that the search command
expects an additional sub command
where you must specify where to search.
So you must specify either hub or repo.
Hub refers to the artifact hub, which we just saw.
We know that the hub is where
all the repositories are kind of listed.
So this is going to list all charts listed
at the artifacthub.io.
However, if you'd like to search in specific repositories,
then you could use the repo option.
So here are the results that show a list of charts
for deploying WordPress along with the app version,
which by now we know is a version of the WordPress
that these charts will deploy.
Once we have identified the chart to install,
we can deploy the application in two commands.
As listed in the Read Me file for that chart,
there are two commands to be run.
The first is to add the Namibia repository.
So the Bitnami chart repository
is available at chartsbitnami.com/bitnami.
It must be added as a repository to our local Helm setup
so that when we run the install command,
Helm can find where the chart is to be installed from.
The helm repo add command adds the repository.
Next, we deploy the application to our cluster
using the helm chart
by running the command
helm install my-release bitnami/wordpress.
So that's it. It's super simple.
Deploying an application on a Kubernetes cluster
has never been easier.
At the end, we even get some useful information
about how we can use this WordPress install.
So this text is actually generated
by the instructions included in the chart.
So this way users can get an idea
about how they can continue
with their newly installed Kubernetes package.
Now, once a chart is deployed, it is deployed as a release.
So to list all existing releases, run the helm list command.
This is very useful
not only to track what has been installed,
but also to see
what hasn't been updated in a long time.
Now, when we want to remove all traces of this app,
imagine doing that by hand.
We would have to delete a lot of objects from our cluster
one by one
to get rid of all the WordPress related components.
But with Helm, this is again, easily done
with a simple command.
Since we now have the name of the release,
we can remove all Kubernetes objects
added by the WordPress website with one simple command.
Again, very easy,
we can really begin to see the power of Helm
as a package manager for Kubernetes.
Now, let's look at some of the other commands available
while working with Helm repositories.
So the helm repo command
can be used to add, list
and remove or update Helm repositories.
So we already saw the Helm repo add command.
The Helm repo list command lists existing repositories.
The Helm repo update command
is somewhat equivalent to
what a sudo app get update command does
on some Linux-based operating systems.
So in a nutshell,
the info that Helm has about that repository
is stored locally
and with time, repository maintainers make changes,
update stuff, and so on.
So our local copy of this info gets stale and updated.
So the command above refreshes the info that Helm has
by pulling it in from the online repository
to our local computer.
This way, we get the latest data available.
Well, that's all for now.
Head over to the labs and get your hands dirty
with some of the basic Helm command line operations,
and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Customizing Chart Parameters ---

Instructor: Let us now look at
how to customize chart parameters while installing a chart.
When we installed WordPress, we installed everything
with its default value.
But we may not want to do that at all times.
For example, the block has a default name
called User's Blog.
We may not want our WordPress site to have this name.
So how did it get this name in the first place?
The WordPress application deployed
by the deployment.yaml file has a WordPress blog name value
set as environment variable,
and it picks the value from the values.yaml file
which has it set to User's Blog.
So that's where the value is being picked from.
Now, when we install the WordPress application
with a helm chart, we did it
with a single helm install command.
Now, this command pulls the chart
and deploys the application instantly, so there is no window
for us to modify the value in values.yaml file.
One way we could modify some of the default values
is by passing in a command line parameter along with
the helm install command using the set option.
With the set option,
you can pass in any field from the values.yaml file
and set a value for it in the command line.
This can be used multiple times to pass multiple parameters
to the command line to customize the deployment.
So here we customize the WordPress blog name property
to helm tutorials and the user email to john@example.com.
And these override the values set in the values.yaml file.
Now, if there are too many of these values,
then another option is to move these
to our own custom values.yaml file.
So here we create a file named customvalues.yaml,
and we then move the variables inside this.
Since this is a yaml file, we replaced the equal sign
with the colon, and we then pass in this file
using the values option like this.
So dash dash values customvalues.yaml
So this is going to now pick the values
from this custom.values file, and then override the values
in the default values.yaml file.
And finally, what if we really want
to modify the built-in values.yaml file itself
instead of using the command line option
or the custom values file?
So instead of running the helm install command,
we will break it up into two commands.
First, we pull the chart using the helm pull command.
Now, this will pull the chart in an archived form
or compressed form, and then you will have to unarchive
or uncompress it, or you could have helm uncompress it
by running the helm pull command
with the dash dash untar option in the command line.
Now, this creates a directory named WordPress.
Under this, you will see all the files that are part
of the chart, and there is the values.yaml file.
We can then open and edit this file in any text editor.
And then once we are ready, we run the helm install command.
But instead of specifying the WordPress chart name,
now, we specify the path to the local WordPress directory.
So the ./ here indicates current directory,
and it picks the chart from the WordPress directory,
which is under the current directory.
So when you run the helm install command,
you can specify a release name followed by the chart name,
which is on the chart repository,
or if you have a local chart on your local file system
in a particular directory,
you can specify the path to that directory as well.
Well, that's all for now, and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Lab: Using Helm to Deploy a chart ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lifecycle Management With Helm ---

Tutor: Let's talk about Lifecycle Management with Helm.
Now, lifecycle management can sound like
a fancy technical term that's too abstract
to understand at first glance.
So let's translate it into plain English
by taking a look at some practical examples.
Now, each time we pull in a chart and install it,
a release is created, as discussed in the previous lessons.
A release is somewhat similar to an app,
but more specifically,
it represents a package or a collection
of Kubernetes objects.
Now, since Helm knows what Kubernetes objects
belong to each release, it can do things like upgrades,
downgrades, or uninstalls without touching objects
that might belong to other releases.
So each release can be managed independently,
even if they're all based on the same chart.
Now let's just create a new release
and discuss this as we go along.
So we'll install a pretty old version of
this Nginx chart.
By the way, you can pass in a specific version of Helm chart
to install using the version option
in the install command like this.
We now have an Nginx release, plainly called Nginx release.
And now imagine two months go by,
which is a long time for any piece of software,
but especially for a website,
a lot of security vulnerabilities get discovered
and they need to be patched up.
Now our Nginx hosted website may have many objects
in our Kubernetes cluster,
and when we upgrade the pods running Nginx,
maybe we also need to make some changes
to other Kubernetes objects.
For example, the newer version of Nginx
may require a new environment variable to be set,
or new secret to be created,
which requires changing configuration objects
and other files, part of the manifest files.
But it may be hard to keep track
of all pieces that need to be changed.
Fortunately, as we said,
Helm keeps track of everything associated with a release,
so we don't have to upgrade our objects one by one.
Helm can automatically upgrade them all
with one single command.
But first, let's see what version
of Nginx is running in our pod.
We initially have to find out the name of our Nginx pod.
So we run the, "kubecutl get pods", command
to see the pod that we created.
Then we run a "kubectl describe pod" command
to see more details about the image,
and we see that it's running Nginx version 1.19.2.
So that's pretty old.
Now let's see a Helm upgrade in action.
The command is rather simple,
so we just tell Helm what release we want to upgrade
and then specify the chart that this release is based on.
So we now run the Helm upgrade command
to upgrade the Nginx release.
So Revision 1 is now replaced, and by Revision 2.
Note the revision number in the output
of the Helm upgrade command.
So did the Helm upgrade command really do its job?
Let's check.
In the upgrade process the old pod gets destroyed
and a new one gets created.
So we need to get the name of the new one.
So we follow the same Helm process again
and get the new pod name then run a describe on it
and we see the new version, which is Nginx 1.21.4.
So there you have it.
We just went through the so-called
Lifecycle Management with Helm.
A release can exist for months or years,
and Helm can manage its lifecycle in many ways
by keeping track of its current state, previous states,
and bring it into future states.
So in this case,
we brought the release into a future state by upgrading it,
but Helm kept a record of the previous state too.
We noticed the revision number changing to 2,
so the previous state would be Revision 1.
Now, how does that help us?
Let's take a look at our releases.
Run the Helm list command to list the current releases,
and we have our Nginx release listed.
We see the current revision number, which happens to be 2.
In this case we know what the previous revision was
and what the current one is.
But say we work in a big team
and lots of people manage their releases,
this output doesn't really tell us what happened.
So how do we dig deeper?
Run the Helm history command
to see more details about a particular release.
This is a lot more helpful.
We can clearly see a lot of useful things.
What chart version was, or is used, in each revision?
What app version was, or is, used in each revision?
What action actually created that revision?
Was it an install, an upgrade, or a rollback?
So this paints a clear picture of the stages
our release went through, its lifecycle history.
Now let's assume this upgrade
did something that we don't like.
Helm's Lifecycle Management
allows for another cool thing called rollback.
Now, this lets us return a release to a previous date.
So in this case, we want to return to Revision 1.
So in this case, we run the command
"helm rollback Nginx release",
and specify the revision number
that we want to roll back to, and that is Revision 1.
Now, when you do that, remember,
Helm reverts all configuration
to how it was previously in Revision 1,
but technically, it does not go back to Revision 1.
Instead, it creates a new revision, Revision 3,
with a similar configuration as in Revision 1.
So if you list Helm revisions with the Helm history command,
now you will see that there are three versions
with Revision 1 and 2
having the same chart and the app versions.
And there is a note in description
that says it's a rollback to Revision 1.
It's worth mentioning that we chose Nginx here
as it's simple to upgrade,
but there will be Kubernetes packages
that may require a few extra steps to upgrade.
For example, if we had have tried to upgrade
the previous WordPress release that we created,
we would've got this output.
Now, that's not to say that this is a problem.
It can be easily solved by adding some more parameters
to the command line as instructed in the text.
But, why does this happen?
In this case, Helm cannot upgrade everything
without having access to some administrative passwords.
It needs administrative access to the database
and to the WordPress website itself
so that it can get permissions to make necessary changes.
It's also worth mentioning
that all the rollbacks are very similar
to a Backup Restore feature.
It doesn't cover file or directory data
that may be created by our applications.
Instead, Helm backs up and restores the declarations
or manifest files of our Kubernetes objects.
So for things that use persistent volumes
or other forms of persistent data
or something that is external,
maybe like an external database,
the rollback won't restore that data too.
For example, imagine you rollback MySQL database server.
The MySQL pods will be restored to their previous states,
software versions used and so on,
but the actual database, its data will remain the same.
Its data is not going to be backed up or restored.
So there are options available
to take consistent backups of databases
before upgrading charts,
or even to roll back or restore databases,
but they're done using what is known as chart hooks,
which we will discuss later in this course.
Well, that's all for now.
Head over to the labs and get some hands-on practice.

--- Lab: Upgrading a Helm Chart ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

