--- Kustomize Problem Statement and Ideology ---

(bright music)
Instructor: Before we get started taking a look
at what is Kustomize
and how to use it, I wanna start off by going over
what problems it tries to address
and why it was ultimately created.
So let's take a look at a simple example.
In this case, we have this nginx deployment .yml file
where we're going to deploy one single nginx pod
in this case.
And let's say that we have multiple environments.
We're gonna have one for development,
which is developing on our local machine, one for staging,
and then ultimately one for our production environment.
And let's say that we want to customize our deployments
so that it behaves a little bit differently
in each one of our environments.
And specifically in this case,
let's say we wanna modify the replicas
on a per environment basis
so that in our development environment
we're developing on our local machine,
which is not very powerful
we just wanna have one replica.
In our staging we might have two to three
and then in our production
which is gonna be handling a lot of traffic
maybe we want 5 to 10,
so how do we actually go about modifying
the different configurations on a per environment basis
'cause right now we just have one nginx
deployment .yml file.
And so it's going to deploy one replica
across all of our environments.
One of the simplest solutions to this problem
is to create three separate directories,
one for each environment
so we have one for development, one for staging,
one for production,
and what we want to do is we want to have all
of the Kubernetes configs
for each environment within their respective folder.
So we're essentially duplicating the configs
across all of the three different environments
and then just modifying the attributes
on a per environment basis
so that we can have different replicas for each environment.
And so what this is gonna look like is
in the deployment file in the dev folder,
we're going to make sure
that the replicas is set to 1.
And in the staging folder the replicas will be set to 2.
And in the production the replicas is gonna be set to 5.
So you could see it's the exact same config
that we're essentially copying in
the three different folders,
we're just updating the specific parameters
that we want updated.
And in this case it's just the replicas.
And then to actually push these configs
or these changes out, we can just do a kubectl apply
and just specify the specific environment directory
that we're using so if we're gonna do development,
we just specify development
and you can see the one nginx pod gets created
'cause we specified the one replica.
And then if we do the same thing for staging,
we'll see that it'll create the two nginx pods in this case.
Now this is a perfectly fine solution.
It'll work, there's no issues,
there's no limitations with the solution.
However, I will say that it is not the most optimal solution
and it's certainly not the most scalable solution.
And the reason I say this is
because imagine if we start
to expand our Kubernetes environment
so we start creating more resources.
And so let's say we wanna create a new service.
We created a service.yml file.
Well now when we create a service.yml file,
we have to remember to copy it to all three directories
because we don't want it to be missing
from one of our environments.
So now you can see that copying all of these files
is going to be a little bit more tedious.
And anytime you wanna make any kind of change
to one of your files,
you have to make sure you do it in all of your environments.
And if you've got five environments,
you have to make sure you do it in all three directories.
And really, it's going to be only a matter of time
before either you or one of your teammates forgets to copy
or change something in all of the directories.
And then you're gonna have a mismatch in configs
across your different environments.
And so that's why I would ultimately not
recommend this solution.
It may work for very small deployments,
but as your, the number of resources that you have
continues to grow, it's going to be harder
and harder to maintain this.
And this is one of the main reasons
why Kustomize was created.
We need a better solution to addressing this issue.
How do we make it so that we can customize each one
of our environments without having to duplicate
all of our code?
We wanna treat this just like regular application code
where we're not repeating everything more than once.
So let's take a look at how Kustomize addresses this issue.
And I do wanna really reiterate
what is the underlying problem.
And that is that we want a way
to reuse our Kubernetes configs
and only modify what needs to be changed
on a per environment basis.
What we don't wanna do
is copy all of our configs across each
and every environment.
That is just not a scalable solution.
So the way that Kustomize handles this
is that Kustomize has two key terms
that you have to understand.
There's your base or your base config,
and then you have your overlays.
So what are these two things?
Well, base config is kind of exactly what it sounds like.
Your base config represents config
that's going to be identical
across all of your environments.
So any resources or configs that you know
will be the same across all your environments,
you put it in your base config.
Your base config also represents default value.
So you could provide default values
across all of your environments
and you can then overwrite them later on.
So here we've got the same nginx deployment file
that we had in the previous slides.
And in this case, I've set the replicas to 1.
So this is my base config.
This is gonna be the default across all of my environments.
Now we already know we don't want it to be 1 in staging
and production,
and we only want it to be 1 in development,
but we'll worry about that in a second.
So the next term that I mentioned was overlays.
So the overlays allow us
to customize the behavior on a per environment basis.
So we can create an overlay for each one
of our three environments.
And here we can specify all of the properties
or parameters that we want to overwrite
or change from the base config.
So we are only interested in replicas at the moment.
So I have specified in the overlays,
I wanna change the replicas
to these specific values in each one of the environments.
So in the development environment, I mean there's no need
for this overlay because the defaults already set to 1
so there's nothing to be need to change.
But for staging, we wanna overwrite the default of 1
and change it to 2.
So we have an overlay for staging
and then for production,
we are then going to override it to a value of 5.
And so that is the base
and overlay relationship within Kustomize.
When you're using Kustomize,
your folder structure is going to follow
a very similar pattern.
You're going to have a base directory.
The base directory, once again,
is going to contain all of your base configurations.
So all of your Kubernetes resources,
all of your configs
that are going to be pretty similar
across all of your deployments,
you're gonna wanna put them there.
And then you're gonna have a separate folder for overlays.
And within the overlays folder,
you're gonna have a different folder
for each one of your environments.
And each one of these environments are going
to have the values that you want to overwrite
and change from the base config as well as any new resources
that should only be added exclusively
for that specific environment.
And so the workflow is going to look like this.
You're gonna have your base configs,
you're gonna have your overlays.
Kustomize is going to take both of them,
and it's going to create the final Kubernetes manifests
that we can then apply to our Kubernetes cluster.
The great part about Kustomize is
it actually comes built in with kubectl,
so you don't have to install any other packages.
However, as we cover in some of the later lectures,
you may still want to install Kustomize
because the one that comes shipped with kubectl
is not always the latest version.
With Kustomize, we're not actually making use of any sort
of templating system like we do in helm,
and that's nice because we don't actually have to learn
a templating language,
all we have to do is just define our base configs
and then specify our overlays
and what we want to change in the overlays.
And that keeps things very simple.
We're using standard YAML files.
All of it's very readable,
whereas some of the more complex helm charts,
they become very difficult to read
because of that templating system.
And because every artifact
that Kustomize uses is plain YAML,
it can still be used, validated,
and processed as nothing more than just plain YAML.
There's no special syntax,
there's no special templating language.
It's all just plain YAML.
And I think that's one of the nicest part about Kustomize
is that Kustomize is all about simplicity
and it tries to keep it as such.

--- Kustomize vs Helm ---

(bright tinkling music)
Instructor: Before we move on to the next section,
I wanted to talk about an alternative tool to Kustomize,
and this tool's called Helm,
and I wanted to just provide a brief,
high level overview of how Helm addresses the same issue
of providing modification to your Kubernetes manifest
on a per environment basis,
and I think it's good to see this just because, you know,
when you're trying to figure out
what is the best tool for your project or application,
you should have a good understanding
of how both of these tools work
and what are the pros and cons of each one
so that you can make the best decision for your project.
So the way that Helm actually tackles this issue
is that it makes use of a Go templating syntax
to assign variables to various properties,
and to give you an example of that,
let's take a look at a template.
So this is a regular deployment configuration,
except you'll notice something interesting.
There's these weird syntax where there's two curly braces
and then some random name or text.
In this case, for the replica's property,
you could see that there's two curly braces
and then there's a string called replica count in there.
So this is an example of the Go templating syntax,
and what this is, is this is a variable.
So we're not hard coding a value,
we're just assigning a variable
that we can later on provide some specific value
and we can tweak that value on a per environment basis.
So how do we actually provide a value to that variable?
So let's take a look at the same exact example.
You can see we have the replica's property
and the variable name is called replicaCount.
So to provide a value for the replicaCount variable,
we would create a values.yaml file that's going to contain
all of the values for the variables.
And so for the replicaCount example,
we can see that there is a replicaCount property
in our values.yaml file, with the value set to one,
so when we deploy our application,
it's going to insert a value of one
into the replica's property.
And if we take a look at the image,
more specifically the image tag,
we can see that it's going to look
for a variable called image with a property called tag.
So in our values.yaml file,
you can see that that is set to be 2.4.4,
so that value will get inserted in when we go
to deploy this application.
So let's see what a traditional Helm project structure
would look like that would allow us to kind of customize
that values.yaml file on a per environment basis.
So I've got a example directory here
and it's broken into two sections.
Under the templates directory,
this is going to contain all of our Kubernetes manifests
where we've inserted all of those variables
using that Go templating syntax.
And then in the environment section,
I have a separate values.yaml file
for each environment that I have,
so I've got values.dev.yaml for my dev environment,
and I got the same thing for staging and prod,
and so these are going to contain all of the values
that I want set on a per environment basis,
and when we go to deploy it,
we would just specify which one we wanna use
and it's going to insert those values
into the respective templates.
Now just a couple of other things to note about Helm.
So Helm isn't just about customizing your configurations
on a per environment basis,
Helm is actually a complete package manager
for your application.
So think of like either YUM or APT for a Linux system,
it kind of operates the same way
for your Kubernetes application.
And Helm is a little bit more complex,
but it also comes with a few extra features
that Kustomize doesn't have,
so things like conditionals, loops, functions, and hooks,
so you do get a little bit more functionality with Helm.
However, with that extra functionality
does come some extra complexity.
So, you know, when you're dealing with these Helm templates,
technically they're not valid YAML
because they are using that Go templating syntax,
and so if you take a look
at some of the Helm charts out there,
you'll see that they are actually really,
really difficult to read,
just due to that temping syntax
where everything is a variable
and it just becomes hard to figure out like,
what exactly is our chart doing?
What values can I replace?
Overall, it just becomes a little bit of a challenge
to read those charts,
and that's one of the perks about Kustomize,
is that Kustomize is very simple.
It's very easy to read, it's just regular YAML.
The regular base configurations
is just regular Kubernetes configs, and then the overlays,
where we go to modify it on a per environment basis,
that's all valid YAML as well.
So I think one of the big trade offs is, you know,
Kustomize is easier and simpler,
whereas Helm is a little bit more complex,
but it has more features as well,
so there are trade offs and you definitely wanna think
about what each one brings to the table
when you decide on what is the tool
that you're going to use for your specific project.

--- Installation/Setup ---

(bright music)
Tutor: In this section,
we'll go over how to install and set up Kustomize.
Before installing Kustomize,
you must first have a Kubernetes cluster up and running
and QCTL installed on your local machine
and configured to connect to your Kubernetes cluster.
Kustomized can be installed on a Linux, Windows,
or a Mac machine,
and the Kustomized team has made it very easy
to install Kustomize by providing a nice script
that will automatically detect your operating system
and install the appropriate version of Kustomize.
So on your terminal, run the following command,
which will download the script,
and that script will pretty much be responsible
for installing Kustomize for you,
so you don't have to run any other commands.
It's all done in that script itself.
After Kustomize is installed,
you can verify that it was installed correctly
by running the following command.
If you don't see an output similar to this,
that means most likely there was an issue
with an installation or maybe the environment variables
weren't updated in the current terminal session.
So, what I recommend that you do
is close out your current terminal session
and open a new one,
and usually that's going to make sure that everything works.
If there's still an issue,
then rerun the installation script again.

--- The kustomization.yaml File ---

(jaunty music)
Instructor: Now that we have the Kustomize tool
installed and configured,
we're gonna finally get started
playing with the tool itself.
So the first thing that we have to do
is we have to learn about the kustomization.yaml file.
And that's going to be the focus of this video.
We're gonna take a look at
what is the kustomization.yaml file,
why do we need it, and how do we configure it?
In this example, I have a k8s directory
that's going to contain all of my Kubernetes configs.
I have two YAML files.
One is for the nginx deployment
and one is for the nginx service.
And we're gonna point Kustomize to this folder,
'cause this is where all of my Kubernetes configs are.
But Kustomize won't look at either one of these files.
Instead, Kustomize looks
for one specific file called a kustomization.yaml file.
And so this is a file that you have to create yourself,
and it does have to be named kustomization.yaml.
And in this file, there's going to be two things
that we need to have in it,
and it's gonna be very simple,
but it's gonna be broken down into two different sections.
The first is it's going to contain a list
of all of the Kubernetes resources
that should be managed by Kustomize.
And so this is going to be just a list
of all of the YAML files that you want Kustomize to manage.
And so in this case, I have my nginx deployment YAML file,
and I have my nginx service YAML file.
And those are both listed under the resources section
of my kustomization.yaml file.
The second thing is going to be
all of the customizations
that we want apply to or transformation.
So what are the things that we need to change?
So in this example, I have a very simple one
where we're going to add a common label
to all of the resources that we create using Kustomize.
And it's going to add a label that has a key of company
and a value of KodeKloud.
Keep in mind, this is just one simple example
of a transformation.
There's a ton of different customizations
and transformations that can be applied.
I just want to keep it simple for now.
And so I really just want to hammer home the idea
that it's just two different things
in the kustomization YAML file.
You have all of the resources that you want managed,
and then whatever it is that you want to change.
Once we have our kustomization.yaml file
configured and completed,
we can now run the kustomize build command.
So we're gonna point the kustomize build command
to the k8s directory,
'cause that's where our kustomization.yaml file is.
It's gonna look for that file.
In that file, it's going to point
to the two resources that we defined.
It's going to import them,
and then it's going to apply all of the transformations
that we have defined.
And then once it's done that,
it's going to spit out
what the final configs gonna look like.
And so if you take a look at the output at the terminal
after you run this command,
you'll see that we can see the nginx service
that we defined.
You can see the nginx deployment that we defined.
And most importantly, you can see the transformations,
which is we applied an extra label
called company: KodeKloud,
and it's gonna get applied
to both the service and the nginx.
And that's what the common label transformation does.
It applies a specific label
to all of your Kubernetes resources.
Now, I wanna quickly summarize what we've learned
so far in this video.
We learned that Kustomize will look
for a customization file,
which is going to contain the two following things,
a list of all of the Kubernetes resources or manifests
that Kustomize should manage,
as well as all of the customizations that should be applied.
Then, when we run the kustomize build command,
this is going to take all of the resources,
all of the manifests that were defined
in the kustomization.yaml file,
and it's going to apply all of the transformations.
But it's important to understand
that when we run this command,
it does not actually apply or deploy
the Kubernetes resources.
Instead, what's happening is it's just spitting out
what the final config is going to look like in the terminal.
If we want to actually apply these configs to a cluster,
we actually have to take the output of this command
and redirect it to the kubectl apply command,
and that's something that we'll cover in the next video.

--- Kustomize Output ---

(bright music)
Instructor: In the last lecture, we learned about
the kustomize build command.
And we learned that when we run this command,
it's going to take all of our resources,
it's going to apply the all...
All the necessary transformations,
and then it's going to spit out the final configs
onto our console.
And what's important to understand is that
we don't actually deploy or apply any of these configs.
So if you log into your Kubernetes cluster
and you run a kubectl get pods, or get deployments,
or get services, you'll see that nothing was created.
So you might be thinking, well,
"How exactly do we apply these configs?"
We're making use of this awesome utility called kustomize,
but we can't actually apply it to our Kubernetes cluster.
Well, the command that you actually have to run,
to run kustomize, build all the configs
and then apply those configs
is this following command right here.
It's pretty long, but let me explain what it does.
So when you run this command, it's going to make use
of the Linux pipe utility.
And this isn't something that's specific
to Kubernetes or kustomize.
This is a feature of Linux, or really any bash or shell.
And so what this pipe utility does is it takes the output
of the first command, which is the kustomize build,
k8s or whatever to the is to the left of the pipe utility.
And it redirects the output of first command into the input
of the second command, which is the command to the right
of the pipe utility.
So we're basically running the traditional
kubectl apply -f, but we're applying a file
that comes from the output of the first command,
which is the kustomize build k8s command.
So that's all it's doing is taking the output of one command
and applying it as the input of the other command.
And so that allows us to make use
of the usual kubectl apply,
and that creates our nginx deployment as well
as the nginx service.
And if you want to take a look at how to do this natively
with just the kubectl tool, you can do kubectl apply,
and then you do a -k instead of a -f,
and then you provide the directory
where the customization .YAML file exists.
That's how we apply these resources.
Now let's take a look at how we can delete
resources using kustomize.
When it comes to deleting, it's almost identical
to creating, we just swap out the word apply with delete.
So the command that we're gonna run is
kustomize build k8.
We use the same pipe utility
and we do kubectl delete instead of apply -f.
And that's going to delete the two resources
that we had created in the previous slide.
And if you want to see how to do this natively
with kubectl, you just do kubectl delete,
and then use the -k flag.
So the -k flag basically means kustomize in this case.

--- Kustomize ApiVersion & Kind ---

(gentle piano music)
Narrator: Just like any other Kubernetes resource file,
you can set the API version and kind properties
on a customization.yaml file.
There are technically optional,
customizable pick up default values,
but I recommend that you hard code these values just in case
there's any kind of breaking changes in the future.

--- Managing Directories ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Up to this point,
we've only taken a look at the absolute
basics of a kustomization.yaml file,
and we haven't really explored many
of the different features and functionalities
the tool brings to the table.
However, even with our current limited knowledge
of customize, we can already do
some really cool and powerful things with it.
One example of this is managing Kubernetes manifests
that are spread across multiple directories.
So let's take a look at an example of this.
In this example we have a k8s directory.
And inside this directory we have four different YAML files.
We have our API deployment YML file,
we've got a service YAML file for our API.
And then we have the same exact thing for our database.
We've got a deployment for our database
as well as a service object for our database.
And when it comes to deploying all of our Kubernetes configs
that reside in our k8s directory, we would just go into
that directory, the k8s directory,
and we would just do a kubectl apply.
Pretty straightforward, nothing special,
customized doesn't even come into play here.
This is just standard Kubernetes.
Now let's say over time the number of YAML files
that we have has grown.
Maybe we have 20, 30, 50 YAML files
and it's starting to get a little messy
and we want to organize it a little bit more.
And then we decide to then move things into sub directories.
So now our API related configs,
so that API deployment YAML file
and API service YAML file
gets moved under a API subdirectory
and all of the deployment and service configurations
for the database get moved under a database subdirectory.
So how exactly do we apply our configs now?
Well, we can't just go under our k8s directory
and do a kubectl apply,
we actually have to go
into each one of these sub directories.
And so, what that would look like is you'd do
a kubectl apply -f and then go under k8s/api
And that's going to deploy the deployment YAML file
for the API as well as the service YAML file for the API.
And we're gonna have to do the same thing
for the database directory now.
So we go onto the database directory,
do a kubectl apply,
and that's going to deploy the two YAML files
under the database subdirectory.
And this is fine,
however, as we grow out the number of directories
or sub directories that we have,
it's gonna start to become a little bit of a pain
having to go into each subdirectory
and doing a kubectl apply
because then every time we make changes,
every time we want to, apply our configs
or delete our configs, we'd have to go inside
each one of our sub directories and make sure
we run that command inside each subdirectory.
And we'd also have to configure our CICD pipeline
to go inside each one of them and do the same exact thing.
And things start to get messy at that point.
This is where customized comes into play.
So we can create a kustomization.yaml file
in the root of our k8s directory.
And inside this YAML file
or the kustomization.yaml file,
we're going to list out all of the resources
we want it to import.
So we're gonna provide the relative path
from the kustomization.yaml file,
to all of the specific deployment and service yaml files
within the API and database directory.
So now customize is made aware
of all of the different Kubernetes configs
that we wanted to import.
And so when it comes to
actually applying these configurations,
it's going to be a lot simpler
because it's just going to be one command.
We just do a customized build k8s,
and then pipe it into kubectl apply -f.
And so now we no longer have to actually go
into each one of the sub directories.
We just run this within the root of the k8s directory.
It's going to pull that kustomization.yaml file
and the Kustomization,yaml file
has the path to all of the individual YAML files
we wanna deploy.
And if you wanna do this natively with kubectl,
you can always do a kubectl apply -k k8s.
So customize has helped us address
the issue of splitting all of our configs
into separate directories.
We now no longer have to go inside
each one of the different sub directories.
However, with the way we've done it,
it's not exactly a perfect solution.
Let's say the number of directories grows, right?
Instead of just having two directories,
we now have four total.
So we've got the API, the database, one for the cache,
and one for Kafka as well.
And so now our kustomization,yaml YAML file,
the list of resources is going to start to get fairly long.
So it's going to import all the resources
from the API directory,
all the resources from the database directory,
all the resources from the cache directory,
as well as all the resources from the Kafka directory.
And so it's gonna start to get
really cluttered, really messy.
You're gonna have a kustomization,yaml file
with basically hundreds of resources getting imported.
And although that is technically a valid solution,
I think we have a better way
of handling this using customize.
So what we can actually do is we can add in
a separate kustomization.yaml file
within each one of the sub directories.
And what we're gonna do inside the subdirectory
kustomization.yaml file is,
we'll list all of the YAML files within that directory
and import that inside
that specific kustomization.yaml file.
So within this YAML file in the database directory,
it's going to import all of the YAML files
that reside in the database directory.
And we're gonna do the same thing
for all of the three other sub directories,
the API directory, the Cache directory,
and the Kafka directory.
They'll only import the Kubernetes configs
for that specific directory.
And then in the root Kustomization.yaml file,
all we'll do is we'll provide a path
to all of the different directories that we want included.
So when we do that, when we specify either the API directory
or the database directory
inside that root kustomization.yaml file,
it's going to go into that subdirectory
and it's gonna look for a kustomization.yaml file.
And it's gonna take a look at all the resources
that it imports, and the root kustomization.yaml file
is going to import all of those.
So now we've kind of better structured
our configurations
by having a separate kustomization.yaml file
inside each subdirectory
so that we can keep our root kustomization.yaml file
as clean and neat as possible.
And once again, to apply these configs,
we just run customized build k8s
and then pipe that into kubectl apply -f.
It's just one command.
It's gonna deploy all of the resources
across all of the sub directories,
and we can always do a kubectl apply -k k8s.

--- Managing Directories Demo ---

(upbeat jazz piano music)
Instructor: Let's take a look at a quick demo
we just learned in the last lecture.
So in this case, I have my K8s directory.
This is going to contain all of my Kubernetes manifests.
And if you take a look inside this directory,
I have three other folders in there.
And so I have all of the Kubernetes configs from my API.
I have all of my Kubernetes configs from my cache.
This is gonna be from my Redis database.
And then this is the database folder, which is going
to contain all of my Kubernetes configs
for my Mongo database.
And if we just expand these, you can see all
of the YAML files associated
with each one of these features.
And these are all pretty straightforward.
If you take a look at the database deployment YAML file,
this is just a standard deployment YAML file
for a Mongo container.
And if you take a look at the other two folders,
it's all pretty straightforward, just a service.
I have either a cluster IP service
or a load balancer service.
And then I usually have a config map as well.
Now, before we get started adding
our kustomization.yaml file, I want to go ahead
and actually deploy these using
the standard methodology without kustomize.
So, let's open up the terminal.
In here, what we're gonna have to do is
we're gonna have to go inside each directory
and do a kubectl apply.
So, we'll do a kubectl apply, we'll do a -f.
And we can do a
k8s.
And then we'll go into this API directory and apply that.
And run that.
And then we'll do the same thing for the other directory,
so I can go into cache.
And lastly, we can do db.
And keep in mind you could technically do this
all in one line if you just kept adding -f flags.
So, we could do -f k8s/db
or cache, and then once again another -f or k8s/api.
And you'll see nothing's changed
because we've already applied those.
But that's how you could technically do it in one line.
But like I said, as your application grows,
your Kubernetes configs is gonna grow as well.
And then you're gonna have to remember to do this across
all directories and it's gonna be a little bit cumbersome.
So, let's go ahead and delete these.
So, I'm gonna just run the same command.
And just change the apply to a delete.
So, let's now incorporate kustomize.
We're gonna start off with the simple solution
where we have just one kustomization.yaml file in the root
of our K8s directory.
So, I'm gonna go onto the K8s directory,
and I'm gonna create a new file,
we'll call this kustomization.yaml.
And the first thing that we need to do
is to find the apiVersion in kind.
We'll do apiVersion,
and this is gonna be kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
and then the kind is going to be Kustomization.
Then let's define our resources.
So we'll do resources,
and here we're gonna provide a list of all the resources
that we want kustomize to pull from.
And so we're gonna go into each of these three directories
and pull each one of these individual YAML files.
So, we're just gonna provide the path
or with respect to the kustomization.yaml file.
So, since this is in the root of the K8s directory,
to get to the API deployment YAML file,
you go into API and then you grab the file.
So, we just do api/api-depl.yaml,
and we can do the same thing for the other file
in there as well.
We do api-service.yaml.
And then to get the redis-config.yaml,
we're gonna go into the cache folder
and grab redis-config.yaml.
And then I'm gonna do this for the other five YAML files.
And I'm just gonna fast forward through the video
because it's fairly trivial stuff of just, you know,
providing the path to the specific YAML file
we want incorporated.
And so once we've defined all the resources,
we're going to pull up the terminal once again.
And this time we're gonna do a kustomize build.
So, I'm gonna do a kustomize build
and we're gonna pass in the path
to our K8s directory and we're gonna run that.
And so, what you're gonna see here
is it's going to print out
what the final Kubernetes manifests are gonna look like.
And so it's included everything that's in the API folder,
it's included everything in the cache folder
and everything in the database folder.
So, you could just scroll down and take a look.
And you can see we've got our NGINX server,
we've got our database,
and we've got our Redis server as well.
So, it's got everything in there.
But remember, when you do the kustomize build,
it just shows you what it would create,
but it doesn't actually apply it to your Kubernetes cluster.
To actually apply it to your Kubernetes cluster,
we're gonna have to pipe it into kubectl apply.
So, we're gonna run the same command, but we do a pipe
kubectl apply -f -.
So, this is actually going to apply it
to our Kubernetes cluster.
So, let's run that.
And we could see everything was successfully created.
And just to remind you guys,
if you don't wanna use the kustomize CLI,
you can actually use the built-in version in kubectl.
So, you can do kubectl apply,
and then -k for kustomize.
And then we pass in the K8s directory.
So, both would do the same thing.
And now let's just double-check
and verify that it did successfully create
all of the resources that we defined.
So, I'll do a kubectl get pods,
and we can see that the three containers
that I had defined are all in a running state.
So, now that we've done this
with one kustomization.yaml file
in the root of the K8s directory, I wanna move
to the better solution
where we have a kustomization.yaml file
within each directory that's going to import the YAML files
in that specific directory.
And then in the root run, we're just going
to import the kustomization YAML file inside each
of the respective directories.
So, let's go back to our root kustomization.yaml file
and we're gonna delete all of these resources.
We don't need these anymore.
And we'll come back to fixing up this file.
But I'm gonna go ahead and create a kustomization.yaml file
in all three directories.
And I'm just gonna copy the apiVersion in kind.
And I'm just gonna copy this file
and apply it to all the other directories.
Okay, so now we have a kustomization.yaml file within each
of these sub directories.
And so I'm gonna go into the one in the API folder
and I'm going to set up the resources in here.
So, for the kustomization.yaml file in the API folder,
we want it to import all of the YAML files
that reside within this folder.
So, I'm gonna import api-depl.yaml
and api-service.yaml.
So, we'll do api-depl.yaml.
And keep in mind, remember,
since we are in this kustomization.yaml file,
we need to provide the relative path to get to here.
So, since they are in the same directory,
we could just put the name of the file.
So, that one's done, we'll go into the one in cache,
and I'll do redis-config.yaml,
redis-depl.yaml.
And lastly, we'll do redis-service.yaml.
And then we'll go into our database directory
and do the same exact thing.
So, now that we've got all of the kustomization.yaml files
done in the sub directories, let's go back to the root
and we're going to import
all of these kustomization.yaml files.
So in this case, you know, we don't need to provide a path
to a specific file, we just provide a path to the directory.
So, when I provide a path to the API folder,
what's going to happen is it's gonna go inside
the API folder and it's gonna look
for a kustomization.yaml file.
So, you only have to provide the path of the folder,
and as long as you have a kustomization.yaml file in there,
it should be able to handle the rest.
So, I'm gonna do the same thing for cache,
and I'm gonna do the same thing for database.
All right, so I went ahead and already deleted
the resources from the previous example.
So, if I do a kubectl get pods,
we can see that there's nothing there.
And so, now we can do a kustomize build
and I'm gonna do the K8s directory
and let's just take a look and make sure
that it dumps everything out.
And so when we take a look at all of the configs,
you can see that it's identical to before,
and so now we can just do a kubectl apply -k k8s.
Or you can do the longer command with the kustomize build
and then piping it into kubectl apply.
Either one works.
So, let's try this.
And we can see that we successfully created
every single resource and if we do a kubectl get pods,
we can see that everything was successfully created.

--- Lab: Managing Directories ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Common Transformers ---

(cheerful piano music)
Instructor: Now let's take a look at
how we can use Kustomize to modify or transform
our Kubernetes configs.
And the way we do this is
through something called Kustomize Transformers.
And Kustomize has several different transformers built in.
You can even create your own custom transformers.
But in this lecture, we're gonna focus on
a specific subgroup of transformers
called Common Transformations.
And before we even go over what that is and what they do,
let's take a look at the issue
they're trying to address first.
In this example, we have our deployment.yaml file
and a service.yaml file.
So pretty straightforward.
And let's say that we want to apply
some common configuration across all of our yaml files.
So we want all of our Kubernetes resources
to have some common configuration.
Well, let's say that we want to specifically add
a label in this case, so something like org KodeKloud,
or maybe we wanna go into all of our Kubernetes objects
and add a specific prefix or suffix to the name.
So maybe we wanna append the word -dev
to the end of our name,
and we'll do the same thing across
all of our Kubernetes configs.
Now, we can go into each one of our yaml files
and add these in.
But keep in mind, in a production environment,
you're going to have significantly more than
just two yaml files.
And so doing this by hand is not a scalable solution,
and it's gonna be very time-consuming
and it's going to lead to a lot of errors.
And so this is why we have
these common transformations in Kustomize.
What they do is they allow us
to make these common configuration changes
across all of our Kubernetes resources.
So let's go over some of the common transformations
that we can apply.
So we have the commonLabel transformation,
and we just kind of saw what that does.
That basically just adds a common label
to all of your Kubernetes resources.
We also have the namePrefix and Suffix transformation.
This is going to allow you to add a prefix or suffix
to the names of all of your Kubernetes resources.
We've also got one for Namespace,
so you can put all of your Kubernetes resources
under a specific namespace.
And we also have commonAnnotations.
So if you wanna add some sort of metadata,
some annotation to all of your Kubernetes resources,
you can use the commonAnnotation transformation
to apply it across the board.
So let's take a look at these transformers in action.
We'll start off with the commonLabel one,
it's the simplest one.
So let's say we wanna add a label
to all of our Kubernetes resources.
Well, we would go into our Kustomization.yaml file,
and just add the commonLabel property
and then specify the labels that you wanna add,
and that's gonna go ahead
and add this to all of your Kubernetes resources.
Or more specifically, it's going to add it
to all of the resources that are being imported
by this specific Kustomization.yaml file.
Now let's take a look at the Namespace Transformer.
So the Namespace Transformer is just going to put
all of your Kubernetes resources under a specific namespace.
To do that, it's very simple.
You just do namespace, then the name of the namespace,
and then that's going to get applied
to all of your Kubernetes resources.
For the Prefix/Suffix Transformer,
we can add in a specific prefix or suffix
by providing the name prefix or the name suffix properties.
And that's gonna map to the prefix of the name
as well as the suffix of the name as well.
And for the last common transformation,
we have the annotation transformation.
So if you wanna add a specific annotation
to all of your Kubernetes resources,
you could just specify commonAnnotations
in the Kustomization.yaml file,
and then specify your desired annotation.
And that's going to get added
to all of your Kubernetes objects.

--- Image Transformers ---

(lounge music)
Narrator: Let's move on to the image transformer.
The image transformer is what's going to allow us
to modify an image that a specific deployment
or container is going to use through customize.
So in this example, I have a deployment.yaml file
where we're going to deploy a nginx server.
And the image right now is set to nginx,
but we can transform that using customize.
So let's define our customization.yaml file
and we're gonna have to specify two properties.
There's a name and then a newName.
So the name is going to reference
the name of the specific image that we want to replace.
So this is going to look through
all of our Kubernetes configs
and it's going to find all the containers
that use an image called nginx.
And then we're going to replace it with the newName,
which is haproxy, so it's going to replace
that image of nginx with haproxy.
Now just to kind of clear up some potential confusions,
you may notice that under the customization.yaml file,
we have a name,
and then under the containers
under the deployment.yaml file,
we have a name as well.
These two things are not related.
So the name under the customization.yaml file
specifies the name of the image,
not necessarily the name of the container.
So ignore the name of the container that's set to web,
we don't care about that.
The name property under customization.yaml file
looks specifically for an image called nginx.
Something to keep in mind, it confused me at first,
so I figured you guys would probably run
into the same issue.
And so after we apply this,
we can take a look at the new images now set to haproxy.
So now we know how to change the image using customize.
However, let's say that we don't actually
wanna change the image,
so we've got our nginx image here as well,
but let's say we just wanna change the tag.
Well, we can use the image transformer
to perform that action as well.
So instead of using the new image property,
we can assign the new tag property.
So this is going to give the new tag
that we wanna assign to that image.
So it's going to look for all of the containers
using an nginx image,
and then it's going to add a tag of 2.4.
So if we take a look at the final result,
we can now see it's nginx:2.4.
Now if we want to, we can actually combine the new image
and new tag properties together
so that we can modify not only the image, but the tag.
So if we wanna change our nginx image to be haproxy
and assign a tag of 2.4,
we can do that all within an image transformer
and the final result is going to be haproxy:2.4.

--- Transformers Demo ---

(gentle music)
Instructor: So let's take a look at making use
of some of these common transformations,
as well as the image transformer in a quick demo.
So in this demo, I've got my k8s directory.
And within here,
I've got a api folder and a db folder.
And within the api, I've got the api-depl.yaml file,
and then an api-service.yaml file,
as well as a kustomization.yaml file within here.
And then in the db folder, same thing,
I've got a depl, a service, and a config.yaml,
as well as a kustomization.yaml file within there.
So if we take a look at the kustomization.yaml files
in there, they've been set up to import
all of the resources within the specific directory.
So in the kustomization.yaml file within the api directory,
I'm importing both of those files.
And then if I go inside the db folder one,
you can see I'm importing
all of the database Kubernetes configs.
And then in the parent, or the root kustomization.yaml file,
I'm importing api and db.
So I wanna start off by adding a commonLabel
to all of the resources here.
And so to apply a commonLabel,
we would have to go to the root kustomization.yaml file.
So this is the main one.
So this is going to apply it
to everything in our Kubernetes environment.
So if we go here, we're gonna then do a commonLabel.
And let's say I want to add the label department,
and we'll say engineering.
Well, let's save this and I'm gonna open up the terminal,
and let's build out the configs and let's see what happens.
So I'll do a kustomize build k8s,
and that's going to look
for the root kustomization.yaml file.
And when it spits it out, let's take a look,
just a quick spot check of all of the resources.
And let's make sure that the commonLabel that we created,
department: engineering, got applied to everything.
So in this case, I've got my ConfigMap here.
So we can see that the department was set to engineering.
I've got my API service that's got the department set,
I have my db-service, I have my api-dpl.
And just quickly scrolling through,
we can see the db-depl as well.
So everything in our k8s directory
got that label applied to it.
That includes things in the api folder
and then things in the db folder.
Now I want you to guess what would happen
if we had applied an annotation, like we have here,
but instead of the root kustomization.yaml file,
we put it inside one of these kustomization.yaml files
within the subdirectory.
What do you think is gonna happen?
Well, let's take a look.
So here, I'm gonna add a commonLabel.
And for here, I'll just say feature.
And since we're in the api directory,
I'm gonna say the feature and then call it api.
So let's take a look.
I'm gonna go back to the terminal
and we're gonna run the same command.
And let's take a look at what it spits out.
So for the ConfigMap, right,
the ConfigMap exists inside the db folder,
not inside the api folder.
The ConfigMap does not have the new label that we assigned.
It's got the department: engineering,
but it doesn't have the feature: web.
And if we take a look at the api-service,
which is in the api directory,
we can see that we do now have a label of feature: api.
So it looks like
that when you apply it to a kustomization.yaml file
within a subdirectory,
it's going to only apply it
to the resources within this kustomization.yaml file.
So these two resources.
So this label gets applied
to whatever's in this list right here.
When we apply it to the root one,
this is going to get applied to these resources.
And since these resources
include all of our Kubernetes configs,
it's going to get applied globally.
So that's the difference
between applying it inside the root one
as well as within the subdirectory one.
And just to get this to match on the database site,
let's create a commonLabel
for all of the database configs
and we'll call it feature: db.
So if we build this now,
if we take a look at db-depl as an example,
we can see now, we have a feature: db.
Okay, so let's play around
with some of the other transformers
that we had covered in the previous lecture
and let's add all of these resources
into a specific namespace.
So I'm gonna go to the root kustomization.yaml file.
'Cause when I apply it here,
it's going to apply to everyone.
And I'll just add namespace,
and just give it some arbitrary namespace.
So maybe, we'll, this will be our debugging environment.
And when the namespace is applied, if we do a build,
we should see under everything,
so all five of these YAML files,
we should see it get applied there.
So for the db side of things,
we can see that the namespace was set to debugging.
For api, we should see that the namespace
was set to debugging,
so it looks like it was successfully applied to everything.
So now let's give everything a namePrefix and a nameSuffix.
And I wanna do something specific in this case.
I want every single object to have a name
prefixed with the word KodeKloud,
and I want all of the resources to have a suffix
that's specific to what folder they're in.
So for everything in the api folder,
I want it to end in web.
So right now,
if we actually take a look at the configs here,
it's gonna be api-deployment,
I wanted api-deployment-web,
and it should be prefixed with KodeKloud.
So it'd be KodeKloud-api-deployment.
And then for db, it's gonna be the same thing,
but a little bit different.
We're gonna change it to,
it's gonna be prefixed with KodeKloud as well,
but it's gonna end in -storage.
So let's think about how are we gonna accomplish this.
So for the prefix of KodeKloud,
we want this applied to every single resource
regardless of what folder they're in.
So in this case, remember,
you wanna apply configs to every single resource,
you go to the root kustomization.yaml file.
So we'll go in here and we'll add a prefix.
So this will be namePrefix and it's gonna be KodeKloud.
And we can just test this right now.
And we can see that the name, it looks like I missed.
Oh, okay, I've realized I wanna put a dash actually
so that the words don't get jammed together.
So if I do KodeKloud-, it's gonna look a little bit nicer.
So we'll rebuild that.
But now we can see it's KodeKloud-db-credentials.
And then let's find one in the api folder
just to make sure it got applied there.
And name, it says KodeKloud-api-deployment.
Perfect.
Now we wanna set up the suffix.
And like I said, the suffix is going to change
depending on which folder that we're in.
So if you wanna do something specific to one folder,
you want to go into the kustomization.yaml file
within that folder.
So for this one, we're gonna go here,
and I'm gonna do a nameSuffix.
And I'm gonna do a -web.
And for the db, I'm gonna do -storage.
So we'll do nameSuffix: -storage.
We'll save all of that, go back to the terminal,
and we'll do a build.
So let's take a look at what the final names are.
So for this case, we have our db-depl file,
and we can see that the name is KodeKloud.
So the prefix is still there,
and the suffix is set to storage.
Perfect.
And if we take a look at one of the APIs,
we've got KodeKloud, and then the suffix is web.
And for the sake of completing this,
let's add a annotation transformation.
And so I'm just going to apply a simple annotation
that's going to apply to every single resource.
So we'll go to our root kustomization.yaml file,
and I'll add in a common annotation.
And here, you know, pick anything that you want.
I'm just gonna say logging, it's gonna be set to debugging,
or let's just say verbose.
And now, if we take a look at all of our resources,
we should see a annotation of logging: verbose.
Awesome.
So I think the last transformation that we need to cover
is the image transformation.
So let's set up a transformer
to change specifically the image in our database.
So our image is currently using a Mongo database.
So let's change this to be a Postgres database.
So where do we apply this transformation?
Do we do it at the root of kustomization.yaml file,
or one of these sub directories?
Specifically the db one?
Well, it depends.
So remember, when we apply this in,
this transformation in a kustomization.yaml file,
it's gonna take all the resources.
And if it finds any resource
using that specific image that we specify,
it's gonna change all of them.
So you gotta figure out
where you want these changes to apply.
So in this case, maybe you don't wanna apply it globally
because maybe there's some other features
that also use a Mongo database,
and we don't wanna actually change those.
Maybe we only want to change the specific database feature.
So in this case,
we're gonna apply it to our kustomization.yaml file.
But obviously, this is going to vary
depending on what you're trying to accomplish
with your transformation.
So here, I'm going to do images,
and we'll specify name.
And this is going to be set to mongo,
because if we take a look at the deployment file
for our database, the image is set to mongo.
Remember, don't look at the name.
The name of the container doesn't matter.
We wanna specify the image name.
So we'll say mongo.
Then we wanna specify the newName property,
and this is going to be postgres.
And then if we want to, we can also specify a new tag.
So I'm just gonna give it some arbitrary tag,
maybe like 4.2.
And now let's test this out.
And if you guys noticed, I got an error.
And it's important to take a look at these errors
and just read it because it's gonna give us some information
as to what exactly happened.
But it says it cannot unmarshal number
into Go struct field image of type string.
So it looks like it's expecting a string,
but for some reason, we gave it a number.
So I'm suspecting the issue is with the tag right here.
If I actually comment this out,
I assume we're probably not going to get an error.
And it seems to work.
So there seems to be an issue with this.
So I found out that we just gotta cover this in quotes
and give it a string.
So it expects a string for the tag.
And so now if I do a build, we should see it goes through.
And let's take a look at the final result.
So if we go under our db-depl,
so let's see, this is going to be our database deployment.
And if we go down to the specific image,
we can see that it is now set to postgres:4.2.
Notice the name still remains mongo.
It doesn't change the name of the container,
it just changes the images that we're using.
And if we scroll through everything else,
you should see that we didn't change any other image.
It should have left everything else untouched.
That's gonna wrap up this section.
In the next section, you're gonna have a lab
that's gonna let you get some hands-on experience
with working with transformers
so that you can modify your Kubernetes configs.

--- Lab: Transformers ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Patches Intro ---

(gentle music)
Instructor: In this section,
we're gonna take a look at patches.
And so kustomize patches provide another method
to modifying Kubernetes configs.
However, unlike common transformers,
patches provide a more surgical approach
to targeting one or more specific sections
in a Kubernetes resource.
So basically, if you want to apply a configuration
across the board,
like adding a label or assigning a namespace
to all of your Kubernetes objects,
you're gonna use a common transformer.
However, if you wanna apply
or change something on one specific object
or just a couple of objects,
you would use a kustomize patch.
So things like updating the number of replicas
in a deployment,
you would use a kustomize patch
to match a specific object and then change that value.
Now to create a patch,
we have to provide three different parameters.
The first one is Operation Type.
So what exactly do we want to do?
And so I've listed out the three most common operations.
Keep in mind, there are a couple more,
but they're not as frequently used.
So we have add, remove, and replace.
So add, you'd perform an operation, an add operation.
If we have a list of containers in a deployment,
and let's say you wanted to add another container
to that list, that would be an add operation.
Remove would be the opposite.
Let's say you wanted to remove a container from the list,
or even remove a label.
It could be removing anything.
And then finally, we have replace.
So replace is taking a value that's provided
and then swapping it out with another value.
So if the base configs have a replica count of 5,
and you say, "Oh, I actually want 10,"
you could do a replace and replace the replica
to a value of 10.
Then after we specify the operation,
we have to provide a Target.
So this is basically specifying the match criteria
on exactly what resource do we want to apply the patch on.
And so we can match on a couple of different properties
like kind or the version or the name of the object
or the namespace, labelSelector, or AnnotationSelector.
So you can mix and match as many of these as you want
to specify the exact Kubernetes object
or objects that you wanna match on and keep.
So it's not just one, you don't have to just use one.
You can use more than one to match on exactly what you want.
And then after you match your specific object,
you have to then provide a Value.
So for the Value property, this is going to be the value
that we will either be replaced or added with.
So if we are doing an ad operation,
we have to provide what exactly do we want to add?
If we want to do a replace,
what do we want to replace the preexisting config with?
And keep in mind, this is not going to be applicable
for a remove operation
just because if you're removing something,
there's no value to be provided.
You just specify the Target and then you remove it.
Now let's take a look at a kustomize patch in action.
So I have an example depl.yaml file here.
And let's say that I want to set up a patch
so that I can update the name property.
Right now it's set up to be api-deployment,
and let's say I wanna change it to web-deployment.
So let's take a look at what our kustomization.yaml file
is ultimately gonna look like for the patch.
So in this case, I've got my kustomization.yaml file,
and all of the patch configuration
is going to fall under a property called patches.
And we're gonna have to provide a couple things.
And the first thing is going to be what is the target?
So what Kubernetes object are we going to match on?
And we could specify a couple of different properties.
In this case, I'm matching on a kind of deployment.
So it's going to look through all of my Kubernetes configs
and it's going to match
on only things that are of type deployment.
And then I'm going to match on a deployment
with a specific name of api-deployment.
And that's going to match this exact Kubernetes object.
Then we have to specify patch,
and then we do this | and then a -.
So you have to add that,
and this is for what is referred to as an inline patch.
And I'll go over what a inline patch is
in the next slide or two.
But for now, just understand
that you're gonna have to add that | and -.
And then we have to specify our different properties.
So in this case,
we are going to specify a operation of replace.
So you do op:, and then the name of the,
or the type of the operation.
Because we wanna swap this out with a new value,
so that's going to be a type replace.
We're not trying to delete it,
we're not trying to add a new name.
Then we have this property called path.
So what exactly is a path?
Well, we have to tell kustomize
what is the specific property we want to replace or update,
and how do we get to it in the YAML tree.
So we have to provide a path to that property.
So how do we get to the name property?
Well, we have to go under metadata.
So for the path, we say /metadata,
and then we get to the name property.
And so then we do /metadata/name.
And if your property is nested further down the YAML tree,
you would just keep going down the path
and just updating each level accordingly.
And we'll take a look at a couple more examples
just to make sure you guys really understand this idea.
And then finally, we're gonna specify the value
that we want to update the name.
So we're gonna set this to be web-deployment.
And so if we take a look
at the final depl.yaml config,
it's going to be updated with the new name
of web-deployment.
Now let's take a look at one more example
just so that we can reinforce everything
that we just learned.
And so I've got the same exact deployment here,
and this time,
we're going to update or replace the value of replica.
So it's set to 1, and I wanna change to some other value.
So if we take a look at our kustomization.yaml file,
we can see that we have the same exact target.
So we're gonna match on a Kubernetes deployment
with the name of API deployment.
And for the patch,
we're gonna once again do a replace operation.
And for the path,
this is where things are gonna be a little bit different.
So we have to figure out,
how do we get to the replicas property?
Well, we have to go under spec,
so it's going to be a /spec.
And then we have to get to replica, so /spec/replicas.
And then we set the value to be 5.
And if we take a look at the final depl.yaml file,
we can see that the replicas has been updated
to a value of 5.
In kustomize, there's actually two different ways
to define a patch.
So till now, we've only been working
with what's referred to as a JSON 6902 patch.
And so a JSON 6902 patch has two things
that you have to provide,
the Target, which is going to tell kustomize
what Kubernetes object do we want to patch,
and then we have to provide the patch details.
So what is the operation,
what's the specific property we wanna update,
and then what's the new value.
So that's a JSON 6902 patch.
I've provided a link to the RFC.
So if you wanna see or read more details
about how this works, definitely take a look at that link.
It's gonna walk you step by step
through all the different features
and functionalities it has.
But I wanted to go over the second way to define a patch,
and that's called a strategic merge patch.
And so this is what a strategic merge patch looks like.
And you'll notice one thing,
if you take a look at all the text,
it looks pretty similar to a standard Kubernetes config.
It actually looks like the beginning
of a regular Kubernetes deployment.
And that's exactly what it is.
I basically just copied the original API deployment file
and I just pasted it in there,
and then I deleted all the stuff I don't wanna change.
And so this is one of the perks
of using a strategic merge patches
that it's just using regular Kubernetes configs.
And then what it's going to do
is it's going to take this new config
and it's going to merge it with the old config,
and it's going to figure out exactly what's changed
and it's going to update those properties.
So when you do this method,
you have to make sure that you provide basically two things.
Once again, we need a way to tell kustomize
what Kubernetes object do we wanna update.
So in this case,
I've provided metadata and then the name of the deployment.
So this is just like defining a deployment
where you specify the name,
this is what's going to let kustomize know
what we're trying to change.
And then you have to specify
the specific properties that you wanna change.
So just like you would define it
in a regular depl.yaml file,
you go under spec and then replicas,
because that's the property I wanna change,
and then you just provide the new value.
So it's going to take that new value of 5
and it's going to merge with the original config.
And I think the original one was a value of 1,
and it's gonna say, "Hey, we wanna update 1 to a 5,"
and then it's going to merge that together
and give us the final result.
And so that's how we strategic merge patch works.
Both of these methods work fine.
There's no issues with using either one,
it's just a matter of personal preference.
You can even mix and match, if you'd like.
I happen to prefer the strategic merge patch
just because I get to use regular Kubernetes configs,
and I think it makes it a little bit more readable.
But if you guys prefer JSON 6902 patch,
definitely go ahead and use that.

--- Different Types of Patches ---

(pleasant music)
Instructor: Now, this is gonna complicate things
a little bit more, but for both the JSON 6902 patch,
as well as the strategic merge patch,
there's two different ways you can define a patch.
The first one is inline, and that's the one
we've kind of been working with till now.
And that's where you define the patch
within the kustomization.yaml file.
The other method is by using a separate file.
So what we can do instead is in the kustomization.yaml file,
we can provide the target like we normally do.
And then we can provide a path to a YAML file
that's going to contain all of our patches,
so that we don't have to clutter up
our kustomization.yaml file.
And so, what that's going to look like is,
in the replica-patch.yaml file,
that's going to contain a list of all of our patches.
So in this case, I've just got one.
So either one of these methods works.
Once again, if you want to just put it in line
in your kustomization.yaml file, feel free to do so.
If you have a lot of patches,
it may start to clutter things up, and then you can move it
to a separate file and then use the separate file method.
And we can do the same thing for a strategic merge patch.
We can define everything in line or, if we want to,
we can specify a path to a YAML file
that's going to contain all of our patches.

--- Patches Dictionary ---

(pleasant music)
Instructor: Let's take a look at another example
on how to update a key in a dictionary
in our Kubernetes config using a JSON 6902 patch.
So I've got my deployment configuration here.
And I've got one label called component API,
and I wanna update that to be component web.
So how do we do that?
Let's take a look at the kustomization.yaml file.
So we're gonna have our target, which is going to specify
what Kubernetes object we wanna match on.
So it's gonna look for a deployment configuration
with the name of API deployment.
Under patch, you can see that the operation
is set to replace 'cause we wanna replace component
with a new value.
We don't want to add or delete a label,
we want to replace this one.
And then we have to provide the path.
So the path is, how do we actually
get to the labels property in our config?
Well, we have to go under spec, so we do /spec.
Then we go under template, so /template.
Then we go under metadata,
metadata and then labels, labels.
And that's going to get us to that dictionary.
And then we wanna update the component property.
So how do we update component?
Well, under the path you finally just provide the name
of the specific key we wanna update.
So that's gonna be component.
And then we provide the new value,
so that's going to change it to web.
And so the final result is going to be,
the label's going to be change to component web.
Now, let's take a look at how we can do the same exact thing
of changing a key and a dictionary
using a strategic merge patch.
And so, I've got my usual API deployment configuration.
And I wanna change that one label, component API,
to be component web.
So how do I do that?
Well, let's take a look at our kustomization.yaml file.
First thing to note is that instead of doing this inline,
I've decided I'm gonna use a separate file.
You can do this inline as well,
I just think it kind of makes it a little cluttered.
So I've decided to move it to a separate file.
And so, I have the patches section,
which is going to list out all of the YAML files
that are gonna contain all of my patches.
And I've got one file called label-patch.yaml.
And if we take a look at label-patch.yaml,
you can see that this is basically a copy and paste
of our original API deployment configuration.
So that's what I did, I copy pasted it into this file.
And then what I did is I went in and I deleted
all the properties that weren't changing.
So like the containers,
that's still gonna be an Nginx container.
So I just deleted that, and I just keep all the things
that it absolutely needs.
So the first thing it needs
is going to be the metadata and the name.
So it has to be able to know what specific Kubernetes object
do we want to update,
and then the exact property that I wanna change.
So I've set the component to be web this time.
And so, customize is then gonna take this config,
merge it with the original API deployment config.
And it's going to see that the only thing that's changing
between the two is the component label
is getting changed to web.
And so, it's going to then change that label
and then give us the outputted result.
So we saw how we can replace or modify a key
and a dictionary using a JSON 6902 patch.
Let's now take a look at how we can add a new key.
So I've got my deployment configuration.
I've got one label called component API,
and I want to add in a second label.
So I want to add in a label that says,
that's gonna be org kodekloud.
So what is that gonna look like
in our kustomization.yaml file?
Well, the first thing
that we need to focus on is the operations.
So if you take a look under the patch section,
the operation gets changed to an add.
So this is going to add a new key to that dictionary.
And then we have to provide a path
to the specific dictionary that we want updating.
So we go under spec, then template,
then metadata, and then we get down to labels.
And then finally, we have to provide the new key.
So you provide the key in the path,
and then you provide the value.
So then this is gonna give us org kodekloud.
And the final result is going to be, we have two labels now
with the original component API.
And then we have the org kodekloud
'cause this is a add operation.
Now, let's see how we can add a key to a dictionary
using a strategic merge patch.
So I've got the same exact deployment configuration
with one label, component API.
And then in my kustomization.yaml file,
I'm gonna use the separate file method
just because I didn't wanna do this inline.
And if we take a look at what that label-patch.yaml
configuration looks like, you can see, once again,
I've just copied the original deployment configuration.
And then I've just deleted all the things that won't change.
And so, under spec/template/metadata/labels,
I've added the new label that I want added.
And what this is gonna do is it's gonna take
that label-patch.yaml file, and it's going to merge it
with the API-deployment.yaml file.
And it's gonna see that the original
API deployment YAML file had a component API label.
And then the label-patch.yaml has a label, org kodekloud.
It's gonna see both of them are different,
and it's gonna merge it together.
And the final result is we get both of those labels added.
We saw how we can add and replace a key in a dictionary.
So now we're gonna take a look at how we can remove a key
from a dictionary using a JSON 6902 patch.
So this is my deployment configuration.
The only difference now is that you can see
I have two labels.
If we take our kustomization.yaml file,
the most important thing to notice
is that we've changed the operation to be a remove.
And then for the path, we have to provide the path
to get to the specific labels dictionary.
So we have to go into spec/template/metadata/labels,
and then we provide the specific key
of the label that we wanna remove.
So in this case, I wanna remove org kodekloud.
So then I just provide org,
and that's going to delete that label.
And so, the final result is that I end up
with just one label and that's the component API.
So now, let's take a look at how we can remove a key
from a dictionary using a strategic merge patch.
And so, I've got the same two labels here,
and the label that I wanna delete is the org kodekloud.
So I've got my kustomization.yaml file.
This is going to point to a separate file
called label-patch.yaml.
And in here, the way we're going to actually delete a key
is we're gonna set it to null.
So I just go under spec/template/metadata/labels,
and then I specify org and give it a value of null.
And that's going to delete the key effectively.

--- Patches List ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: So we saw how we can remove, replace,
and add keys to a dictionary.
Let's now take a look at how we can perform those
operations on a list.
So, I've got a deployment configuration here,
and at the bottom of the deployment configuration,
I've got one container with the name of nginx
and an image of nginx.
And it's important to understand
that the container section expects a list.
So that's why you see that dash before the name.
So you can have more than one container.
I only have one in this case,
but you can have as many as you'd like.
So let's see how we can change the name in the image
of this specific container here.
So if we take a look at our kustomization.yaml file,
we're gonna have the target, as usual,
that's gonna target this specific Kubernetes object
by providing the kind and the name.
The patch section, under operation,
we're gonna have a replace operation
'cause we're gonna replace the name and the image.
Now this is where it gets interesting, the path, right?
To get to containers, you have to go under spec,
then template, then spec, then containers,
and then something interesting happens.
We have a zero.
So what does this zero mean?
Well, the number at the end of the path represents
the index of the container you wanna change.
So remember, this is a list,
so you can have more than one container,
and the index is going to represent
which item in that list you wanna update.
And so if you've ever worked with a programming language,
you know that when it comes to a list or an array,
the first item in that list is always going
to have an index of zero.
So it starts counting from zero.
The second one is going to be a one,
the third one is going to be a two,
and the fourth one is gonna be a three, and so on.
So we only have one container,
but that's going to be both
the first and the last container.
And since this is the first container,
it's going to have an index of zero.
So this is going to tell Kustomize,
I want to change the first container,
which is gonna be that nginx container.
And then I specify the new name
and the new image under the value section.
And if you take a look at the final result,
we can see that is now changed to haproxy
for both the image and the name.
So, let's now take a look at how we can replace a container
or replace an item in a list using a strategic merge patch.
And so I've got the same deployment configuration
with the same nginx container.
And so I want to update the image of this container.
So, I've got my kustomization.yaml file
that's going to point to the label-patch.yaml file.
And if you take a look at the label-patch.yaml file,
you'll see that under the container section,
I specify the name of the container that I wanna change,
which is going to be nginx.
And then I provided the new image of haproxy.
And that's going to update the image.
Let's now take a look at how we can add an item
to a list using a Json6902 patch.
So once again, I have my deployment configuration
with one container
and that's gonna be my nginx container.
And I want to add a second container to this list.
So how do I do that?
Well, in my kustomization.yaml file,
the first thing that I'm gonna need
to change is the operation.
So it's going to be set to add
because I want to add a container.
And then the next thing that you probably have noticed
that's probably sticking out a little bit
is that at the end of my path I have this dash.
So what does that mean? All right.
It looks like a typo, but, in fact, I want that there.
So what the dash means is, well, first of all,
at the end of the path,
you have to specify where do you wanna add the container
in the list.
So where in the order.
The dash just means I want
to add it at the end of the list.
So it's going to put it in after the nginx container,
but I could also specify a specific index
for where I want to add it to.
So if I want to add it to the front of the list,
I would provide an index of zero, 'cause remember,
arrays and lists start with an index of zero.
If I wanna make it the second item,
I would give it a value of one, an index of one.
But since the order doesn't really matter in this case,
I'm just gonna add it at the end.
That's why I have the dash.
Then we provide the values as usual.
So I'm gonna set the name to haproxy
and the image to haproxy.
And then finally, when we take a look
at the final configuration,
you can see that we now have two containers,
one called nginx and one called haproxy.
Adding an item to a list using a strategic merge patch
is going to be just as simple.
So, once again, we've got one specific container here
with the name of web and an image of nginx.
And I'm going to use a separate file to list out my patches.
So I've got my label-patch.yaml.
And all we have to do is just specify
the new container we want to add.
So, here I'm adding a new container with the name of haproxy
and an image of haproxy.
So when we merge the two configs together, it's going to see
that there's a container
from the original configuration called web,
and then there's a container from the patch called haproxy.
These are two containers, so it's gonna merge it together,
and we're gonna end up having two containers in our array.
So, now let's move on to deleting items from the list
using a Json6902 patch.
And so I'm gonna start off with two containers
and I want to delete the container
with the name of database.
So in my kustomization.yaml file,
I'm gonna change the operation to be a remove.
And then I'm going to provide the index
of the container I wanna remove.
So we have two containers and I wanna grab the second one.
So that's going to be an index of one.
Remember, we always start counting at zero.
So the web container is going to be an index of zero.
The second container, the database one
is going to be an index of one.
And then we don't need to provide a value
because this is a remove operation.
And if we take a look at the final result,
we can see that we just have one container.
Okay, so now let's see how we can delete an item
from a list using a strategic merge patch.
So, once again, we've got two containers
and we want to delete the container called database.
And so if we take a look at our label-patch.yaml,
you're gonna notice something a little bit different.
If you take a look at the containers section,
you're gonna see this interesting symbol,
you're gonna see the dollar sign,
patch, and then delete.
So when you're dealing with
the strategic merge patch, right,
we're listing out all of the Kubernetes configs
that we wanna change.
Well, how do we list out that we want to delete something?
If I don't include, then Kustomize just thinks
that I don't wanna do anything.
So how do I tell it I want to delete something?
Well, I have to use the delete directive,
and that's what that dollar sign patch is.
So I use dollar sign patch, and then I say delete.
And then under it, I give it exactly what I want to delete.
So I want to delete the container with the name of database,
and that's going to delete that container.
And we're gonna end up with
just one container at that point.

--- Lab: Patches ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overlays ---

(bright music)
Instructor: Now that we've learned how to work
with kustomization.yaml files
and the different functionalities that come with it,
we can finally put everything together
and address the main use case of Kustomize.
As mentioned before
in one of the first lectures of this course,
Kustomize was created to allow us
to take a base Kubernetes config
and customize it on a per-environment basis.
And so if we have a development environment
and a staging environment
and a production environment,
we may wanna tweak certain properties
on a per-environment basis,
and that's where Kustomize really does come into play.
So how exactly do we accomplish this?
Well, it's with something called overlays.
And if you take a look at a usual folder structure
of a customized project,
it's gonna be broken down into two different sections.
So you're gonna first have the base section.
So this is going to be where
all of your shared configuration,
so all of your Kubernetes configs
that are gonna be shared across all of your environments
or all of your default configs are going to reside.
So your base config is going to have
all of these shared and default configurations.
And then what we're gonna do is on a per-environment basis,
we're gonna define a overlay folder for each environment.
And here we get to specify
all of the environment specific configs
so that we can take the base configs
and then modify it to our liking
for that specific environment.
And so that's why we have a folder for dev,
and a folder for staging, and a folder for production.
And if you haven't guessed, right,
we're gonna accomplish this by providing patches.
That's it, so your dev folder
is going to have a certain number of patches
that will change things
to match what the dev should have.
Staging folder is gonna do the same thing.
They're gonna have a bunch of patches
for the staging environment,
and the same thing goes for production.
So let's take a look at this in action.
So I've got the same directory structure,
and in my base folder
I have my nginx-depl.yaml file.
And here I've set the replicas to 1.
And let's say on a per-environment basis,
I wanna change this value.
So, to get this set up,
the first thing that we need to do
is we need to define our kustomization.yaml file
in our base folder.
And this is just a regular kustomization.yaml file,
and you can see we're just importing the resources
like we normally do.
Nothing special up to this point.
Now where things get interesting is in the overlays.
So if we take a look at the kustomization.yaml file
in the dev folder,
you're gonna see something new that we haven't seen.
We've got this bases property.
So what is that?
Well, we're basically telling this kustomization.yaml file,
how do I get to the base directory
with all of the base configs?
So we just have to provide the relative path to that folder.
So, relative path means
how do I get there from this kustomization.yaml file.
Since this file is in the dev folder,
we have to go up two directories
and then into the base directory.
So if you guys aren't familiar with this syntax,
if you see two dots and a slash,
that means go up a directory.
So we see two dots and a slash,
so that means we go from the dev folder
to the overlays folder,
and then we have another two dots and a slash,
so that means we go from the overlays folder
to the k8s folder,
and then we go into the base directory.
Once that's defined, Kustomize will look
for the kustomization.yaml file in the base directory
to know all the resources it should be importing.
And then we're gonna provide a patch.
So let's say we wanna update
the replicas to a value of 2,
and that's all you have to do.
That is the entire concept of overlays.
You see, we're not really learning anything new.
We've already learned everything that we need to learn.
It's just a matter of providing patches
on a per-environment basis.
And the same thing goes for production.
We're gonna provide the path to the base folder,
and then we're gonna update
and provide a patch to update the value
to be of 3 for the replicas count.
Now overlays is a simple concept,
and we've kind of already covered everything
that we need to do, right?
That's really all we need to know about overlays.
It's just a matter of importing the base configs
and then providing patches.
But I wanna make sure that you guys don't think that,
you know, overlays can only have patches.
We can actually do a little bit more.
So in your overlay folder,
what can happen is,
you're gonna have your kustomization.yaml file,
and that's going to have all of your patches.
But in one of these environment folders,
in your overlay folders,
you can have new configs
that weren't defined in your base folder.
So in this example, I have a grafana-depl.yaml,
and you'll notice that doesn't exist in the base folder.
So this means that in my production environment,
I'm going to add a Grafana deployment
that isn't available in any of my other environments.
And so I just wanted to highlight the fact that
in these environment-specific folders,
you can add as many brand new resources as you want.
You don't have to just modify preexisting ones,
you can use new ones.
And so the way that this would look like
in your kustomization.yaml file is,
under the resources section,
we just import it like a regular file.
So we have our bases, we have our patches,
and then we import our resources
that are in our current folder.
So, just something to keep in mind,
you can add new resources inside your overlay folder.
So one final note,
I wanna make sure that you guys don't think that
we're kind of forced into a certain directory structure.
In fact, kustomize gives you a lot of flexibility
in how you wanna structure your Kubernetes configs.
So you can break it out into subfolders.
So your base folder can be broken out into,
you know, extra subdirectories based off of features
like we've done before,
and you could break it out however you want to.
Don't think that you just have to jam everything
under the base directory.
And the same thing goes for your overlays.
If you wanna break it out into features as well,
you can do that as well.
And remember, these subdirectories
don't have to match up with what the base directory is.
They can be completely separate.
They can follow their own patterns.
It's completely up to you,
just make sure that you have
the resources being imported properly
into the proper kustomization.yaml files.

--- Lab: Overlay ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Components ---

(upbeat tone)
-: In this lecture, we're gonna take a look
at a customized feature called, Components.
And so, a component provides the ability
to define a reusable piece of configuration logic
that can be included in multiple overlays.
And so, these are gonna be really useful in situations
where you have an application
that supports multiple optional features
that need to be enabled only in a subset of the overlays.
And that's important to understand,
a subset of the overlays.
Let's say we have a certain set of configurations
that we need to enable a certain feature.
If we wanted it enabled across all of the overlays,
we would just put it in our base configs.
But let's say we didn't want it enabled
in all of our overlays, only in a subset of them.
Well, we could do that pretty easily
just by defining them in each one of the overlays.
But then, now we're copying and pasting all of the configs.
And so, that's not a scalable solution.
We usually try to avoid copying
and pasting things like that.
'Cause a lot of times it leads to some config drift.
If you make changes in one,
you forget to make changes in the other.
So components are just reusable blocks
of Kubernetes configs, that's all it is.
Don't complicate it, it's just all of the resources
for a specific feature, all of the patches,
all of the config maps, secrets,
and any other Kubernetes related configs
associated with the feature.
They go into a component
and then you can enable it in multiple overlays, that's it.
So let's take a look at a visual example
because I think once you visually see how all of this
fits together, you'll have a much better understanding
of how components work.
Now, let's say our application can be deployed
in three different variations.
We've got the development variation,
the premium one for premium customers,
and then a self-hosted version for any one of our customers
that wants to self-host our application.
So we've got those three folders
and those would represent the three different overlays
in a customized application.
And then we obviously have our folder
for the base configuration
that's gonna be shared across all three overlays.
Now, let's say our application
has a couple of optional features,
and one of those is caching.
And let's say that only the premium
and the self-hosted version of our application
should have caching enabled.
And for caching, in this case, let's say we would need
to enable a Redis database as well as you know,
all the configurations associated with Redis
so that we can implement caching in our application.
So only these two versions are gonna have caching enabled.
And then let's say we also want a external database service
like a Postgres database,
and that should only be available for development
and the premium versions of our application,
so these two guys.
So this is going to create a little bit of an issue
'cause we have these individual features
that only apply to a certain subset of our overlays.
So let's take a look at caching as an example.
So we're writing out all of our Kubernetes configs
for our caching functionality,
and we're trying to figure out where exactly do we put it
in our folder structure.
The first thing you're thinking is,
we put it in our base configuration directory.
And the problem with doing that is, all three overlays
will get the configuration, but remember, only self-hosted
and premium should get the caching configuration,
we don't want development to get it.
So putting it in the base folder is not an option.
So what else can we do?
Well, we can copy the caching configuration
in both of the premium and self-hosted overlays,
and that would work just fine.
However, if you make changes in one of the folders,
you'd have to remember to make changes in the other one.
And let's say we over time decide
to add a few more variations
to how we can deploy our application.
We would have to remember to copy it into all of those.
So like most other things like developing any applications,
you wanna avoid copying and pasting whenever you can.
And so, that's why components were created.
They were kind of created
so that we could have a reusable block of code
that we can apply in several different overlays.
So we could take our caching configuration,
all the Kubernetes config for that,
and create a component, a customized component,
and then we can just import that component into all
of the different overlays that should be using it.
So let's take a look at how that would work.
So we've got the exact same folder structure
with our three overlays and our base configuration,
but now we're gonna create an extra folder
and we're gonna store all of our components here.
And there's going to be two different components,
caching and database.
So inside the caching folder,
we're gonna have all of the Kubernetes configs
that are associated with the caching feature.
So like I said, that's going to be
probably like a Redis instance
with all of the configurations and secrets
for the authentication side of our Redis database,
as well as anything else that we need
for our Redis database.
As well as, we're gonna have a folder
for our external database feature.
And that's going to contain all of the configs that we need
to implement that specific feature.
So they're all isolated into their own folder.
Then what we can do is,
all of the overlays that need the caching functionality,
they can just import that component.
So they just have one line in their configs that say,
"Hey, I want to import caching."
And then for all of the overlays that need the database,
they can just import the database component.
So all of the logic for the caching functionality
sits in one spot, in that caching folder.
And all of the logic for the external database functionality
sits in the database folder inside the components directory.
And that way we get to write it only once
and then we could import it
into as many overlays as we want.
So let's see how we can implement a component.
Now if we take a look at our example project structure,
we've got a couple of things that we've already seen before.
We've got the base directory
that's going to contain all of the base configurations
for all of our overlays.
And we've got our kustomization.yaml file
as well as one deployment configuration in there as well
for our API.
In the bottom, we've got our overlays.
So there's the same three overlays that we have,
the dev, the premium, and the standalone.
And these are just simple overlays.
They just got their kustomization.yaml files,
no other extra resources.
And then finally, in the middle,
we've got our new components folder.
So this is going to be the folder
that contains all of our individual components.
And you can see that we've got two different components.
We've got the caching component and the database component.
So if we take a look at one of these,
we'll focus on the database,
but the caching is identical almost.
You'll see
that there's a couple of different files in there.
So first of all, we've got our kustomization.yaml file,
that's a given, but then we've got two other files.
So I've got a deployment-patch.yaml,
and a Postgres-depel.yaml.
So what are these files?
Well, the Postgres-depel.yaml
is a deployment for a Postgres database.
So within the database folder or any component folder,
we're going to have a list of all of the resources
that this feature needs.
So I took a look at the feature
and I realized the only thing I need to create
from a Kubernetes perspective is,
I need to have a Postgres database.
So I have a Postgres deployment
inside the Postgres-depl.yaml.
So I'm just creating all of the resources I need
to get the external database functionality to work.
Now, if we take a look at the kustomization.yaml file,
the first thing that you'll notice is the apiVersion
and the kind are different.
Because this is a component,
we have to change the version to the one listed there,
and the kind to be component,
just something to keep in mind.
The next thing that we have to do is,
we have to import the resources
that we created for this component.
So in this case, it's just the Postgres deployment.
I also figured that since we have a database,
we probably need to store a secret for the database
so that we know what the password is.
So I've defined a secret for the password.
And then finally, we have all of our patches.
So when you have a feature,
you may need to go in and change some things
that are in the base configuration folder.
So obviously we have our API-depl.yaml
in our base directory, and we need to go in
and add an environment variable in there
so that it knows what's the password
to connect to the new database
for our external database feature.
So if we take a look at the deployment-patch.yaml file,
you can see this is a strategic merge patch.
And we're going to update the API-deployment
in our base configuration,
and we're gonna add a brand new environment variable,
and that's going to be the database password.
The final thing that we have to cover
is the kustomization.yaml file in the overlays.
So we have to import the components that we created.
So if we take a look at the kustomization.yaml file
in the dev folder,
we're going to import the database component
because as I mentioned, this specific deployment model
or this variation for dev
makes use of the external database feature.
So how do we actually import a component?
It's very simple.
So if we take a look at the top,
we've got the importing of our base,
that's just usual customization configuration.
But then below that, you can see the component section.
So that's going to provide the path to the component
that we want to make use of in this overlay.
So we provide the path to the database component.

--- Lab: Components ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

