--- Troubleshooting - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello and welcome to this section.
In this section, we look at
some of the troubleshooting techniques for Kubernetes.
We start with troubleshooting application failures,
then move on to troubleshooting control plane failures,
and then to worker node failures,
and finally network related issues.
This section is full of hands-on labs
where you are given a broken cluster
and are asked to troubleshoot and fix issues.
Good luck.

--- Application Failure ---

Throughout this course, we've actually worked on a number of troubleshooting exercises with respect
to the topic we were going through at that point in time.
So a lot of troubleshooting is already covered.
We will go through an overview of troubleshooting techniques and procedures, and work on some more
practice tests in this section.
We'll start with application failures.
Let's take a look at a two tier application that has a web and a database server.
The database pod hosts a database application and serves the web servers through a database service.
The web server is hosted on a web pod and serves users through the web service.
It's good to write down or draw a map or chart of how your application is configured before you start.
Depending on how much you know about the failure.
You may choose to start from either end of this map.
But remember to check every object and link in this map until you find the root cause of the issue.
Say in our case, users report some issue with accessing the application.
First, we start with the application front end.
Use standard ways of testing if your application is accessible.
If it's a web application, check if the web server is accessible on the IP of the node port using curl.
Next, check the service as it discovered endpoints for the web pod.
In this case, it did.
But if it did not, then you might want to check the service to Pod Discovery.
Compare the selectors configured on the service to the ones on the pod.
Make sure that they match.
Next, check the pod itself and make sure it is in a running state.
The status of the pod, as well as the number of restarts, can give you an idea of whether the application
on the pod is running or is getting restarted.
Check the events related to the pod using the describe command.
Check the logs of the application using the logs command.
If the pod is restarting due to a failure, then the logs in the current version of the pod that's running
the current version of the container may not reflect why it failed the last time.
So you either have to watch these logs using the dash F option and wait for the application to fail
again, or use the previous option to view the logs of a previous pod.
Next, check the status of the DB service as before.
And finally check the DB pod itself.
Check the logs of the DB pod and look for any errors in the database.
There are some more tips documented in the Kubernetes documentation page for troubleshooting applications.
This will help in upcoming practice tests as well as in the exam.

--- Lab - Application Failure ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Application Failure : (Optional) ---

-: Hey,
so let's go through this practice test on troubleshooting
application failure.
So the first question is,
a simple two tier application is deployed in the alpha name
space.
It must display a green webpage on success.
So click on the app tab at the top of your terminal to view
your application.
So I can click here to open the application,
and I see that it is indeed in a failed state.
So if I look at the error message here,
we can see some of the environment variables, which,
which we can use for while troubleshooting, but it says,
Can't connect to MySQL server on MySQL service 3306.
Name does not resolve.
So basically it looks like this web application is unable to
reach the MySQL service because the name, there's some,
some issue with the name is not able to resolve it.
So let's look at this architecture diagram.
So here, so it's a two-tier application.
So you have the web service here and you have the database
service here, and then you have the user accessing it.
So we know that this is most likely a deployment or a pod.
The web application is on 8080,
and then you have this web service which is on 8080.
And then this is the node port that the users are accessing,
which is 30081.
And then you have the MySQL service,
which is a,
which is a service that the web application use tries to
connect to.
And this is the MySQL pod.
Now looking at this state.
So we know that the web application loads, it's,
it's failed, the application is failed,
but at least the interface loads.
So looking at it,
this area seems to be okay.
Okay, because this port 30081,
this is the port that we are on.
So 3081, so that's good.
So this patch looks okay.
This web service has loaded the application.
So this also looks okay.
So there's some issue in this area.
The application is unable to reach the MySQL service at this
name or at this port.
So let's first take a look at,
at the application.
So it's in the alpha name space.
So we're gonna do a kubectl, we get pods, dash name,
space alpha.
And so we're gonna work,
we're gonna run a lot of commands in the alpha name space.
So it's best if we switch our context and,
and set the alpha name space as the default name space,
because we don't want to be typing in the name space for
each command so let's do a kubectl config,
and let's check the help find out the command.
So we can use a set context.
So we're going to do a set text,
and then let's check the help.
And what we want to do is we wanna set the name space,
we're gonna use a set context, and then the current context.
So we wanna set the name space of the current context to the
name space equals alpha.
Okay?
So that's modified.
So let's try,
we've gotta just get pods now and we see that we can see the
pods in the current name space.
So as we suspected,
the web application is a deployment.
So let's do a deploy.
So the web app is a deployment, and the SQL server is a,
is a pod, and we also have services.
And so the SQL server has a, the,
MySQL service and the web application has the web
service.
Okay
So one way to, another way to test the,
if the web application is accessible or not,
is basically at this level of test is to do a curl and then
to gonna do a local host because it's accessible on the node
port and the port is 3081. And we can see the kind of,
you know, this in a,
in a text format and we can see that database connection has
failed and can't connect to MySQL server
on MySQL service.
So we're gonna look more into this area, right?
So let's see, let's look at the deployment.
We're gonna do a kubectl,
we're gonna do a kubectl describe deployment web app
about MySQL.
So that's the deployment name.
And here we see that we have the template,
the image is simple web app.
MySQL port is 8080.
And these are some of the environment variables.
So the database host is MySQL service, the user is root
and the password is this password.
So the host is MySQL service.
So let's look at the service called MySQL service,
Let's do a get service.
And we see that the name of the service is not MySQL service
It's instead MySQL, right?
So that seems to be the problem here.
So this,
and this should match because from within this application
is gonna try and reach a service by the name MySQL service.
And this doesn't look like that.
So that seems to be the problem.
So what we're going to do is we're gonna fix that.
So let's do, let's try and edit the service.
And we can't edit the service name,
but let's give it a shot.
All we want to do is change this to MySQL service,
right?
So let's try and save that.
Now, it's not going to allow you to save that,
but the changes we made is in this temporary file.
So this is what we need.
So here you have the service and you have the,
MySQL service and everything else seems to be as,
as what we want.
So the port numbers are there,
selector is there,
or another approach we could do is to just delete the
service and export or expose the service,
the MySQL service again.
But for now,
we could just go ahead with this.
So we could do a kubectl
delete as we see, and delete the MySQL service.
Then we're going to create SVC.
Nope, we're gonna create using this file.
Okay, let's check service now.
And we see that the MySQL service has now been created
on port 23306.
Okay?
So let's go ahead and check this.
Okay, when you check this application, it's now Success
check our work.
Okay, so that's successful,
let's proceed to the next one.
Okay, so in this one,
the same two tier application is deployed in the beta name
space and it must display a green web page on success.
Click on the app.
So let's click on this app to see
the status.
And as you can see, it's in a failed state.
And if you look at this, you have the environment variables.
So the database hosts MySQL service, user is root,
password, and it says,
Can't connect to MySQL server on MySQL service 3306.
Now it says connection refused.
So it's this connection refused.
So let's take a look at it.
So first we're going to switch context to beta.
We're gonna do a set context config, set
context command, and then we're going to,
so the current context name space to beta
okay?
Now we're gonna do a get pods.
Pods, and we see the MySQL pod and you have the,
the web app pod.
So that's fine.
And then we also have services for the MySQL service and the
web app service.
If you look at this again, as before, the,
the Port 30081 seems to be correct.
So you can,
as we can access that here and this whole application loads.
So this whole thing should be good, right?
And again,
it looks like it's a connectivity issue with between
the web application and the MySQL server.
So this is what we have to verify.
Now, last time the issue was with the name,
but now looks like the name is correct,
it is MySQL service, but we will anyway,
also check the deployment on what is set,
describe Deploy web app MySQL.
And we see that the database host given here is MySQL
service and this is MySQL service as well.
So that's good.
Now let's just look at the service.
So this is good.
Now let's just focus on this.
So we're gonna do a describe service, MySQL service.
And we see selector is right,
the endpoints it has has detected the endpoint.
So that's 10.42.0.12.
Let's look at,
let's make sure that this endpoint is the pod,
which is the MySQL pod.
So let's do a kubectl get pods -OY
to see the IP of the pod.
And we see that the MySQL pod has an IP address, 10.42.0.12.
And this is 10.42.0.12.
So that's right.
But if you look at this right here, it says port 8080.
And so the IP is, okay, so then we check the port.
So it's port 8080, and 8080 is not
the port for the database.
So if you look at it here,
the port here is 3306 and not 8080.
So that seems to be the problem.
So let's do an edit as we see MySQL service.
And you can see the port here is 3306, which is right,
the target port given is 8080, and that is not right.
So that should be 3306 as well.
So let's edit that.
Let's make sure the changes took place.
Okay, so now is 3306, and let's check the endpoints.
And we see that the endpoint is now 10.42.0.12, 3306.
Let's now check our application and yep, can see that it's,
it's a success.
Let's check our work.
Okay, so we're two down.
Okay,
so the next question is the same two tier application is
deployed in the Gamma name space.
It must display green webpage and click on the app tab at
the top to view, okay, so it,
it looks like it's the same question.
So let's go and open the application.
Okay?
So just keeps spinning
and meanwhile we'll go here and here our work and switch
context to,
we'll switch to the gamma namespace, okay?
And let's check status of pods and let's check services.
So we have both the pods are running and the services are
there, but this doesn't look like it's loading.
So let's try and find out why.
So it looks like the issue is somewhere here.
The page itself isn't loading,
the service itself isn't loading.
So let's start looking at it right from here.
So the first thing to look at is this Port 30081,
because that is the,
the port that we are trying to access 30081, okay?
And it's now timed out.
So 30081.
So if you look at the service called web service,
we see that it's set to node port,
and the node port is 30081, so that's fine.
So that looks good.
Next thing is the service itself.
So let's check if the service has a endpoints.
So we're gonna do describe service, web service,
and we see the name, web service, name space is gamma,
has the right selectors and has
the endpoints.
10.42.0.14.
And the ports are 8080 and 8080.
So that looks right.
Let's make sure the IP address,
the endpoints are picked up correctly.
So this endpoint is 10.42.0.14,
and the web app is on 10.42.0.14 as well.
So that checks out.
So the next step is, so the web service is good,
Let's check the deployment itself.
So we do our kubectl get pods, we do
describe deployment web app, MySQL,
and we see that it has one desired and one available.
So that's fine.
The image is, looks correct,
the database host is MySQL service, user is root
password.
All of that seems to be okay, but it's still,
we're unable to do the deployment.
So let's check out the logs because it looks like the,
the web server isn't responding.
So let's do a logs
on the pod.
And this seems to be, okay, so this,
this application itself, it says it started,
it's available on this port.
And so that seems to be okay.
So however,
we are still not able to access the application.
So let's anyway,
go through and complete our checks because we assume that
it's going to be somewhere here.
But anyway, let's go down and complete our checks.
So the MySQL service is supposed to be on 3306.
So let's check that.
So we have the MySQL service and it's on 3306.
Let's check the endpoint,
describe MySQL service.
And here you have the endpoints,
but it looks like there are no endpoints.
So apparently the service hasn't detected MySQL pod as an
endpoint, so let's take a look at why that is.
So if you look at the selectors right here,
it says name equals SQL 00001, and for the pod,
so describe POD MySQL.
And we know that the labels for this is,
is name equals MySQL.
So that should be the selector not name equals SQL 0001.
And that's why it doesn't have any endpoints.
So let's go ahead and edit that, not the pod.
We're going to edit the service, MySQL service,
and we're going to change the selector to MySQL
then save that.
Okay, now we're going to do a describe pod,
no describe Service MySQL.
And we see that we have, we have the service now protected.
Let's go and check out our application.
Okay, so that's connected successfully.
So apparently,
even though we were not ab able to access the web
application,
that's because the web application is trying to access the
MySQL service and that service was not responding,
which is why the web application was not responding either.
So even though we thought that the issue was somewhere here,
we went through and we made sure that everything's fine and
we just went through the remaining
just to check and just to be sure.
And that's how we identified that the issue is somewhere
here, so that's,
that's another approach or technique that you should use.
If you're not really sure, I mean,
you start with an intuition on, you know,
where the issue could be, but if you don't seem,
you know, if you can't really figure out,
you just keep looking at the,
those things just to make sure that they're working as
expected.
Okay, so let's check our work
and let's wait for the next one.
Okay, so here the,
the same two-tier application is deployed in the Delta name
space, and it looks like it's the same setup.
So here we have, and it's in a fail state.
So let's first change our context to
Delta.
Okay?
Then let's check the pods and let's check our services.
So let's check the error message.
So the host is MySQL service user is SQL user.
Password is password.
It says can't connect to MySQL server on MySQL service.
3306 connection refused.
Okay, I wanna try that out again, just refresh it.
And it says Access denied for user SQL user
at 10.42.0.16 using password.
So it says Access denied for the user.
So, and here you can see the user details.
So the DB host has to be my service, the DB user is route.
And the password is password.
So let's check the,
the settings for that.
So the web application must access that.
MySQL service,
and this is where the credentials are stored.
So let's do a describe on MySQL,
describe deployment on MySQL.
Let's look at the settings.
So here you have the environment variables and you have the
host, which is MySQL service.
The user is, it says SQL user, but it's actually root.
And the password is password.
So this is, this seems to be the problem.
So let's edit that
and update the user to root.
Okay, and let's wait for the bot to be running.
So it's running already.
It refers to the page.
And that's success.
So that was the issue here.
Let's check that out.
And while the new one loads, let's close this one,
let's clear our screen.
Okay,
the next one is the same application is deployed in the
Epsilon name set in space.
It must do display a green web app webpage on success.
So let's open the webpage and we have a similar error
message.
So it says the environment variables, DB host,
MySQL service database.
It's not set users, SQL user.
And the password access denied for user SQL User, okay?
So that's kind of the similar error.
So let's take a look at it.
But first let's change the context to,
Epsilon, okay, and set the parts.
And we know that,
So it's a similar error message where it says Access denied
for SQL user, and that's what we just solve.
The user is not SQL user, it's
a root user, so let's go ahead and fix that.
Edit deployment, web app, SQL.
And so here we see the user is SQL user.
So let's change that to root.
Okay, let's check the bot, if it's running.
Let's refresh the page.
Okay,
so now the error message has changed and it says access
denied for user root.
Again, so the access is still denied.
But the user has now been updated to root.
Right?
So.
The user credentials are either set on the application
that's trying to connect to the database or the database
itself.
Right?
So we've already fixed it on the deployment here,
but now the issue could be here.
So let's check out the pod.
Because that's the only other place where anything
could be set.
And here we see additional details.
And here we have the environment variable and the MySQL root
password is set to something other than password, which
should be this.
So that needs to be changed.
So let's do a edit pod for MySQL
and let's change this password to.
BASWRD
save that, it's not going to allow us 'cause it's a pod.
So we're going to do a kubectl, replace,
replace force and give the file.
Okay, let's delete it.
It's up, it's running.
Let's try to refresh the page.
Hmm.
So now it'd says connection refused.
No, okay.
That was because we tried too early,
the pod was just being initiated.
So now at success.
So that was the issue.
Now another thing to note here is in this case, I mean,
you know, these are, it's very simple,
straightforward examples of setting environment variables,
but these could also be part of config maps.
So there could be another config map associated with the
MySQL service, which is how it is usually configured.
And so if that is the case,
then you should inspect the config maps as well.
Okay?
All right, let's get ready for the final one.
Okay,
so the same two tier application is deployed in the Zeta
name space.
So let's first set the context to Zeta
and let's check out the application.
Okay, so it says bad gateway right up front.
So let's start from here.
So we're assuming,
because it says we're not even able to access the web
service, we're gonna start right from the top.
So the,
the node port is 30081 because that's what we are trying to
access here.
And let's see the status of the services.
And we see that the web service is, has a node board,
but here you see it's not on 30081, it's on 30088.
So that's what we're gonna fix, edit service,
web service.
And the node board has to be 30081.
We'll save that and let's make sure that it's updated.
So it's 30081.
Okay?
So that's done.
We're now able to access the application at least now it
says access denied for user SQL, user using password.
So that something we have seen already.
So let's check out,
okay, let's look at the deployment,
describe deploy web app MySQL.
And we see that there are environment variables.
So MySQL service, SQL server, SQL user and password.
So let's edit that
to change it to root
Okay, so the new pod has been deployed.
Okay?
So now the username is updated, so access,
but it's still his access denied for user root.
So we have to
go down and check the,
the password configured on the MySQL service.
So let's do a describe pod MySQL.
You see that we have the password issue here,
the environment variables.
So let's edit that.
And this should be password, let's save that.
That's not going to go through.
So let's do a replace this.
Okay, let's wait for the pod to run.
Okay, so yep.
Now that's successful.
Check our work.
Okay, so that's about it.
I know that there's a little bit of repetition on the type
of questions and,
and that's really in case you didn't get it the first time
for you to just get that practice again and,
and get it the next time and build some confidence.
So, yep,
I hope that was a good troubleshooting session and we'll
have more coming up in the upcoming labs.

--- Control Plane Failure ---

In this lecture we will see different ways of troubleshooting control plane failures.
We start by checking the status of the nodes in the cluster, see if they are all healthy, then check
the status of the pods running on the cluster.
If we had control plane components deployed as pods in case of a cluster deployed with the kube ADM
tool, then we can check to make sure that the pods in the kube system namespace are running, or else
if the control plane components are deployed as services, as in our case, then check the status of
the services such as the kube API server, the controller, manager and scheduler on the master nodes,
and the Kubelet and kube proxy service on the worker nodes.
Next, check the logs of the control plane components again, in case of kube adm, use the kube control
logs command to view the logs of pods hosting the control plane components.
In case of services configured natively on the master nodes, view the service logs using the host's
logging solution.
In our case, we could use the general control utility to view the kube API servers logs.
This should be a good start.
For more tips, refer to the Kubernetes documentation page for troubleshooting clusters.
This will help in the upcoming practice test as well as in the exam.

--- Lab - Control Plane Failure ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Control Plane Failure : (Optional) ---

-: Okay, so in this video we're going to work
on troubleshooting control plane failure.
So the first question is, the cluster is broken.
We tried deploying an application, but it's not working
troubleshoot and fix the issue.
So before we begin, a quick tip
if you don't have the alias set already on your prompt
so you could do a alias, k equals kubectl.
And also if you don't have auto completion
then one thing you could do is
you could go to the Kubernetes documentation pages
search for kubectl cheat sheet
and then the first thing that comes here
is the kubectl completion bash.
So let's copy and let's run that.
And this basically gives you auto completion.
So you do a kubectl get
and then it automatically gives you the options.
The other thing is, so if you're setting an alias
you should do this as well to get the alias for
the short form for kubectl.
So I'm gonna set this as well,
that way I can just do kubectl get
and then yeah, order completion for the short form.
Okay, so we're gonna look at the status of the cluster.
So let's do a kubectl, get nodes
and we see that the nodes seems to be in a ready state.
So that's good.
There is, it says there are deployments.
So let's take a look at the deployments.
And we see that there is a app deployed, but it's not ready.
So there is one container or one pod in the deployment
but that pod is not ready.
So let's take a look at it.
Let's do a describe,
so you describe deployment app
and we see that it's one desired,
zero available, so there's, that's one unavailable
and there isn't anything here that's really helpful.
So here it says scale that replica set to one.
So let's take a look at the replica set,
get rs, we have one replica set.
Let's take a look at that.
Describe replica set app.
And we see that the desired is one,
but it's still waiting.
And here you have the events and it says creating pod.
So let's take a look at the pod
and we see that there is a pod created,
but it's in a pending state.
Let's take a closer look at that pod.
And we see the events have not started yet
but everything else seems okay
but it's in a pending state.
So when a pod is in a pending state, it's most likely,
that indicates that it has not been assigned a node.
So if you look at the node here, it's set to none.
That means the pod has not been assigned
to a node and the job
of assigning a pod to a node is scheduler's job, right?
So we have to look at the status of the scheduler.
So let's do a, and we know that scheduler runs
as a pod in the kube system name space.
And here you have the scheduler
and it has control plane at the end.
So that means it's a static pod
and its status is crash loop back off.
So let's take a look at the pod
in more detail in the kube system name space
and we're looking at the kube-scheduler.
Okay, so we see
at the bottom here that seems to be restarting quite often.
And then it says fail to start container
kube-scheduler error response from daemon,
OCI runtime create failed, starting container process
kube-scheduler, executable file not found.
So it says this executable is not found
obviously it looks like it's not, right.
So let's take a look at the options
or the command that are used to run this pod.
So here we can see that there is an incorrect command
that's wrong and that's the reason.
So we know that the kube-scheduler is a static pod.
So the file is in
TTC Kubernetes manifests
and we have the kube-scheduler.yaml file here.
So this is the manifest file for kube-scheduler
and within that there's a wrong command.
So let's go and edit that file
and then remove the extra characters.
And we're gonna save that and we'll see if we have
we'll see the status of the pod
and its in a creating container config error state.
Yep, it's now in a running state
and we'll just watch until, we just watch until it's ready.
So let's give it a few seconds.
Still not ready.
Let's take a look at the logs.
Okay, okay, so it's finally in ready state.
And let's take a look at the pods.
And we have the pod is now in ready stage.
Let's take a look at the deployment
and we have one of one ready.
Okay, okay, so that's, that's good.
Let's go to the next one.
Now it says scale the deployment app to two parts.
Let's do a kubectl.
So let's get the deploy.
And we have app with one pod, let's scale it up,
kubectl scale deployment app
and replicas is two, there's two pods.
Okay, even though the deployment was scaled to two
the number of pods does not seem to increase
investigate and fix the issue.
So let's check the status of pods and we see
that it's still just one, but we have the deployment here.
It says one of two, ready.
So let's take a look at the deployment.
Kubectl describe deploy app,
and we see the image set
we see scale that replica set to one, but we don't see it
the deployment, scaling up the replica set to two.
However, here we see the number of replicas to be two.
Two is the desired state and only one is available.
So the job of updating a deployment
the job of updating a replica set
or scaling up a replica set is the controller managers.
So it's the deployment controller
and all the controllers that as, as we know
the deployment controller, the replica set controller
they're all controlled by the controller manager.
So let's take a look
at the status of the controller manager.
So we're gonna do a kube system
and we see that the kube controller manager is
in a crash loop back of state.
So let's take a look at the kube controller manager.
So within the new system
we're going to describe this particular pod.
And we see that says back off, restarting fill container.
We don't see anything useful here in the events.
Let's take a look at it.
So here it says crash loop back off terminated error.
The exit code is one
and the command seems to be correct.
There's isn't anything at there.
So let's take a look at the logs.
So let's do a kubectl logs
this one in the kube system name space.
Okay, so here it says this particular file
there's no such file or directory.
So this file is not found.
Let's check if that file exists.
Of course that file does not exist
because there seems to be something wrong with it.
So let's check, let's check where this file is specified
in the kube controller manager.
So we know that the cube controller manager
is also a static pod.
So that means it must be
in the slash ADC Kubernetes manifests directory.
And then we have controller manager there.
So let's see, let's just grab for XXX
cause that's what we saw.
And here we have it specified.
So the kube config file is configured to this location
but let's see where the actual kube config file is, right?
So the actual kube config file
for the controller manager
is at atckubernetescontrollermanager.com.
Let's just verify the contents of that file,
let's do controller manager
and we see that this is indeed a keep config file.
Okay so that's the problem.
So we're going to edit the controller manager
manifest file to fix that issue.
So we're going to remove this XXXX that is not required.
We're gonna save that and we'll check the pod system.
It's in pending state.
So we're going to watch that and we'll give you some time
for the kube controller manager to be ready.
Okay, so it's now in a running state and it's also ready.
So let's take a look at the pods.
And we see that there are now two pods indeed.
Let's take a look at the deployments
and we see that there are two deployments.
Okay, let's check the status.
Okay, so we're breaking something now.
Okay, so something is wrong with scaling again,
we just tried scaling the deployment
to three replicas, but it's not happening.
So let's take a look at that.
Let's do a get pods.
It's only two, let's do a get deployment.
And it's two of three, so it looks like it's gone to three.
So let's check,
let's look at the deployment.
And we see that here we have scale
of the replica set to one, then two, which we did earlier
but it has not been scaled up to three.
So in the previous one we have learned that if
the scaling up isn't happening,
if the changes that we have applied on the deployment
aren't, isn't going into effect
then the culprit is usually the controller manager
because it's the controller manager
that is responsible for this.
So let's take a look at the controller manager again.
Okay, so we're going to look
at the logs of this pod controller manager.
So we're gonna do a kubectl logs, oh
this is the control plane controller manager
the kube system name space, and we see
that it says unable to load client ca file.
So the ATC Kubernetes PTICS cert is not available.
So let's try and find this file locally
and we see that we do have this file locally.
So yes, this file seems to be here
but it says it's not able to load it,
there's no such file or directory within
the kube controller manager.
So we know that the way that the cube control manager
or any other control plane component is set up
is that the certificate files are
on the control plane on the host.
And then we use volumes to mount
these directories within the same directory
within the controller manager, right?
So that's set up in the manifest file.
So let's take a look at the manifest file
and we're gonna look at your controller manager.
And we see that all of these
all of these that are configured here
so ATC Kubernetes, ATC Kubernetes PKI
these are all in fact on the host, but they're mapped
as a volume through to these containers.
And the way that's done is through volume mounts.
So we look at volume mounts here
and we can see there are multiple volume mounts.
So you have the CSSL certs, the CS certs
but what we want is the coordinate PKI volume.
This is what we are concerned about
because this is what it claims that is not available.
So here the mounting looks good
but the volume that is mounted is called K eight certs.
So let's take a look at the K eight certs volume.
So these are the volumes that are configured here.
And here we have the K eight certs volume
and this is the section for that.
And within this we have the path which is given at the top.
And here you can see that there's an incorrect path given.
So it says wrong PKI directory.
So we're gonna have to get rid of that
and add the right PKI directory
which is just PKI and just going to save that.
Let's take a look at the pod status now.
Okay, it seems to be in a running state
and so let's watch it
and wait until it is back up and running.
Okay, so it's now in a running state.
Let's take a look at the status of pods.
And we see that we have three pods indeed.
And if we take a look at the status of the deployment
we see that we have three out of three ready.
Okay, So that's the end of this lab.

--- Worker Node Failure ---

In this lecture we will see different ways of troubleshooting worker node failures.
Again, we start by checking the status of the nodes in the cluster.
Are they reported as ready or not ready?
If they're reported as not ready, check details about the nodes using the cube control.
Describe node command.
Each node has a set of conditions that can point us in a direction as to why a node might have failed.
Depending on the status, there are either set to true or false or unknown.
When the node is out of disk space, the out of disk flag is set to true.
When a node is out of memory, the memory pressure flag is set to true.
When the disk capacity is low, the disk pressure flag is set to true.
Similarly, when there are too many processes, the pressure flag is set to true.
And finally, if the node as a whole is healthy, the ready flag is set to true.
When a worker node stops communicating with the master, maybe due to a crash, these statuses are set
to unknown.
This can indicate a possible loss of a node.
Check the last heartbeat time field to find out the time when the node might have crashed.
In such cases, proceed to checking the status of the node itself.
If the node is online at all or is crashed.
If it's crashed, bring it back up.
Check for possible CPU, memory and disk space on the nodes.
Check the status of the kubelet.
Check the Cubelet logs for possible issues.
Check the Kubelet certificates, ensure they're not expired and they are part of the right group, and
that the certificates are issued by the right CA.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice test and practice fixing broken clusters.

--- Lab - Worker Node Failure ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Worker Node Failure : (Optional) ---

-: Okay, so in this lab we're going to
practice troubleshooting worker node failures.
So we'll wait for the lab environment to be ready
and we'll get started.
While we wait, I'm going to set
the alias for kubectl.
Okay, so the first question is to fix the broken cluster.
So let's run up a get nodes
and we see that indeed there is something broken.
So node zero one is in a Not Ready State.
So let's see why that is.
Let's do a describe node, node zero one.
And here we see a set of events.
So all of these seem to be normal
so they're starting the kubelet.
All of these are good statuses
and the node itself is ready.
There's something missing.
So let's go to that node.
Let's just say node zero one, and we'll check the status.
So the first thing that we wanna check
on a worker node is the kubelet,
because we know the kubelet is the controller of a node.
And the kubelet is what helps in communication
between a worker node and the master
or the control plane node.
So let's do a check the service of the kubelet.
So service kubelet status.
And we see that it's loaded, but it's in an inactive state
so we don't know why it's in an inactive state.
So we're going to just try and start it.
So let's do a service kubelet start
and let's check the status again.
And we see that it's now in an active and running state.
Let's go back to the control plane
and let's do a quick kubelet get node.
Okay. And we see that both are in a ready state.
So I think that should fix that question.
Okay, let's go to the next one.
Okay, so the cluster is broken again.
Investigate and fix the issue.
So let's check the status again.
And we see that it's again, in an not ready state.
So let's check the status of the node.
Oh, zero one and go to full screen.
We see that all of these, all of these events are normal.
So that's, that's okay and there's nothing here either.
So let's go to the node
and check the status of the kubelet again,
service kubelets status.
And we see that it's in an activating state
and it looks like there is an exit code
and it's exited.
The status is 255.
So that means it's not.
There is something wrong in the process.
It's is not able to start.
So even if you do a service kubelet start,
it's not actually going to start the service
because there seems to be something wrong.
So let's check the status of the service again
and it's in an activating state.
So to look at the logs of a service,
do a journalctl-u and kubelet
and let's check the status.
So these are the logs, and let's look for
the latest of the most recent logs.
Okay, so we are here.
Let's go up.
So all of these seem to be an error from a previous error.
All these seem to be an error message.
And here you can see that there's an error that says
unable to load clientcfile/etckubernetes
picking wrong ca file.
There seems to be a wrong file, so let's
try and find that out.
So the, the kubelet configuration files are one
in the edc kubernetes
kubelet.com.
So that's one file.
But this is basically the kube config file
used by the kubelet.
So here you have the certificate, the contacts
and everything that the kubelet uses to
connect to the kubelet pa server.
So this is not the place where there's an issue.
It's basically the kubelet service itself, right?
So the kubelets service picks the options
from a file located var/lib/kubelet.
So there's something to remember.
And here you have a file called config.yamo.
So var/libkubeletconfig.yamo.
And within this file there are some properties
that are passed through to the kubelet.
And here you can see
there is this zero one C file right here
and that's the client ca file.
So it should be the correct file.
So let's find what the correct file is.
And there's the ca.cert file.
So that's what it should be ca.cert
instead of the wrong ca file.
So let's edit that
and put the correct ca cert,
save that.
And now we're going to restart the kubelet service.
And let's just check the status of the service now.
And we see that it's in an active running state.
Let's go back,
let's go back to the control plane node.
And let's check the status of the nodes
and we see that they're in a ready state.
Okay, so let's go to the next one.
Okay, so now the cluster is broken again.
So let's check and we see that yes,
it is indeed broken and node zero one is not ready.
So let's go to node zero one
and let's check the status of the kubelet.
And we see that, we see that it's active
and it's in a running state.
Okay, so let's check the logs
journalctc-ukubelet,
and let's go all the way to the end
and let's work our way backwards.
Okay? And let's see if there's something useful here.
So here you can see unable to register node
and you can see the control plane and dial
TCP 10 54, 132, 6553 connection refused.
So this seems to be the error that's
causing the remaining errors.
And if you look at it, it says connection refused to this.
And this is basically for the control plane that we have.
And it looks like this port number is incorrect
because we know that the control plane port number is
6443 and not 6553.
So that that could be the error.
So let's take a look at the kube config file used
by the kubelet.
So we saw that the cube config file used by the kubelet
is etc kubernetes and kubet.com.
So let's take a look at the contents of the file.
So here if you look at this, you see that right here
the control plane port number is incorrect.
So let's get that corrected.
And we'll set to 6443,
and we're going to do a service kubelet restart,
and service kubelet status.
You see that it's not in an active state.
Let's check the logs as well.
And we no longer see those errors
and it seems to be good.
Let's go back and
let's check the status of the nodes
and we see that it's now ready.
Let's check our work.
Okay, so that's the end of this lab.
So when it comes to troubleshooting worker nodes
always first check the status from here,
from the control plane.
And check whatever you can find from here.
And then go to each of the worker node that has the issue
and start with checking the kubelet service.
If the kubelet service is good, check the logs
of the kubelet service and continue your way from there.
Well, that's all for this lab.
Thank you.

--- Network Troubleshooting ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Practice Test - Troubleshoot Network ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab  - JSON PATH ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Pre-Requisites - JSON PATH ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- JSON Path in Kubernetes ---

In this video, we will look at how to use Jsonpath in Kubernetes with the kube control utility.
We will start by discussing why you might want to use Jsonpath in the first place.
We will then look at viewing and interpreting kube control output in JSON format post, which we look
at the different steps involved in using Jsonpath with the kube control utility.
We then look at several jsonpath examples, and then go through loops, before finally looking at custom
columns and sort functionality of kube control.
Once done, you will go through a set of practice tests where you get to practice what you learned through
some fun and challenging exercises.
So let's get started.
Now, before you begin, you must know how to work with Jsonpath, so that's a prerequisite.
If you have never worked with Jsonpath queries before.
Check out the videos and practice tests on that first.
They're available for free on my YouTube or on the Code Cloud website.
If you have worked with it already, let's continue.
Also, it's good to first practice jsonpath on Kubernetes dataset so that you know how to navigate through
it before actually working on Jsonpath with kube control utility.
We also have a set of exercises on working with Jsonpath on Kubernetes dataset, so make sure you go
through that as well.
In this video, our focus will be on how to use jsonpath queries with the kube control utility.
So why jsonpath on the first place?
When you're working with production environments for Kubernetes, you will need to view information
about hundreds of nodes and thousands of objects like deployments, pods and replica sets and services
and secrets, etc. and you will be using kube control utility to view information about these objects.
You will often have requirements where you will need to print summary of different states about different
resources.
You will want to view specific fields of all resources, query data about the resources based on different
criteria, etc..
Viewing such information by going through thousands of these resources is an overwhelming task, which
is why kube control supports a JSON path option that makes filtering data across large datasets using
complex criteria and easy task.
But let's take a step back and understand how the kube control utility works.
We know that the kube control utility is the Kubernetes CLI.
Use it for reading and writing Kubernetes objects.
Every time you run a kube control command, it interacts with Kubernetes API through the kube API server.
The kube API server speaks the JSON language, so it returns the requested information in a JSON format.
The kube cube control utility on receiving the information in a JSON format, converts it into a human
readable format, and prints it out to our screen.
During that process, a lot of information that came in in the JSON format is hidden in an effort to
make the output readable by showing only the necessary details.
If you'd like to see additional details, you could use the dash o wide option with the kube control
get command.
This prints additional details, but again this is not complete.
There are still a lot more details that are not part of this output.
For example, the resource capacity available on on these nodes and the chains set on the nodes, the
conditions of the nodes, the hardware architecture, the images available on these nodes, etc..
Well, you can see them if you run the cube control describe command.
But what if you want to see it like a report?
For example, say, I'd like to see the nodes and their CPU counts in a tabular format like this.
Or the list of nodes and the taints set on them.
The architecture or say, print the list of pods and the images they use.
None of the built in commands can give me these in this format.
That's where Jsonpath queries can help.
With jsonpath queries, you can filter and format the output of a command as you like.
And that's what we will see in this lecture and in the practice exercises that follow this video.
In order to get started with Jsonpath in kube control, you must follow these four steps.
First, you need to know the command that will give you the required information in the raw format.
For example, if you need information regarding nodes, then you must use the kube control get nodes
command.
If you need information regarding pods, you must use the kube control get pods command.
We have seen a lot of these commands throughout this course, so that should be easy.
Once you identify the command, inspect its output in JSON format for this.
Add the option dash o JSON to the command.
It will print the output in a JSON format.
This is the same format of documents you worked with during the JSON practice test on Kubernetes objects
that I mentioned in the beginning of this video.
The next step is to look through the structure of the JSON document, and form the Jsonpath query that
will retrieve the required information for you.
For example, to get the image, you would use the query dot items of zero containers of zero dot image.
And finally, use the query you developed with the same kube control command.
To do that.
Use the JSON path option and pass in the same jsonpath query that you just developed.
Remember you must encapsulate the jsonpath query within a pair of single quotes and curly braces.
Like this.
We now have our kube control command with the Jsonpath query.
So if you're a beginner to jsonpath and to this kind of logic, then I would recommend strictly following
this approach where you first view the JSON version of the output, copy the output to a Jsonpath query
evaluator like jsonpath Dccom.
Then play around with it until you come up with the right Jsonpath query, and then move that query
to the kube control command.
With that, you should be able to come up with jsonpath queries to pull useful information like the
below.
A Jsonpath query of items of star dot metadata dot name with the cube control get nodes command gives
us the names of the nodes in the cluster, a query of items dot status dot node info dot architecture
returns me the hardware architecture of the nodes notes and status dot capacity dot CPU returns me the
count of CPUs on these nodes.
Finally, I can merge these queries together into a single command.
For example, I could use the first query to get the node names and add the query I used to get the
CPU count to it.
And that gets me both the results in a single command.
That's good.
And I can get any information from the JSON output, as long as I can figure out the right jsonpath
queries for it.
But that's still not pretty, is it?
That's not how I want it to look.
So let's look at some of the predefined formatting options.
In this I have two types of information in the same line.
I can insert a new line by adding the newline parameter in between the two queries like this.
The slash n is for new line and slash t is for tab.
We will now look at loops using ranges.
This may be a bit advanced for some users, so don't worry if you don't fully get it from a certification
and exam standpoint.
We've covered what we need, but I'd like to cover this as well before.
Before we wind up with the queries we have built so far.
We were able to get different sets of information like names of nodes, the CPU counts, etc. in this
format.
But this is not what we really want.
We want it to look like this one.
On the right.
The node names in one column and CPU counts in the other.
This is where we use loops to iterate through items in a list and print properties of each item.
We will focus on the JSON query part alone for now.
When I run the cube control get nodes command, I get a list of items, each item representing a node.
So I want to be able to say for each item or a node, print the node name, then insert a tab as a separator
and then print the CPU count followed by a new line character.
This will get me the results in the format I want to specify the for each statement.
Use the range keyword range items of star means for each item.
To print the node name, use the same query we built earlier.
Dot metadata dot name.
Then to add a tab, add the keyword.
Then to print CPU count, use the query dot status, dot capacity CPU and then to add a new line, add
the end keyword.
Finally, end the loop using the end keyword.
Merge it all in into a single line and pass it as a parameter to the Jsonpath option of the kube control
command.
You can also use Jsonpath for printing custom columns with kube control.
At times this is an easier approach when compared to using the loop method.
Let's take the previous example, where we used the Jsonpath option to print node names and CPU capacities.
What we really want is to print them as separate columns, one column with the node name and another
with the CPU count.
Instead of using the Jsonpath option directly with the command, you could use the custom columns option
of the kube control command.
The Custom Columns option takes a set of column name and Jsonpath options.
For example, for the first column, the column name is node.
The jsonpath corresponding to the node name is dot metadata dot name.
Note that you must exclude the items section of the query as the custom columns assumes.
The query is for each item in the list.
This prints the first column with the given column name and its data.
Similarly, you can add additional columns by adding additional column and jsonpath pairs separated
by a comma.
So we add the next column named CPU with its data at.
Status CPU.
Much easier and cleaner.
Again, for this tool, I would recommend first coming up with a jsonpath queries for each column and
then putting them together in the command.
Finally, Jsonpath can also be used while sorting objects by specifying the sort by option.
The kube control command comes with a sort by option, where you can sort the output based on the value
of a property from the JSON formatted properties of each item.
When you run the kube control get nodes command, specify the Jsonpath query we developed earlier,
as is in the sort by option to sort based on name or CPU count.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice tests and practice working with Jsonpath and some advanced kube control commands.

--- Lab - Advanced Kubectl Commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

