--- Lightning Lab Introduction ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lightning Lab - 1 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Mock Exam - 1 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Solution - Mock Exam -1 (Optional) ---

Instructor: Okay, so what we're gonna do is
we're gonna walk through the solutions
for the mock exam one.
We're gonna start off with question one.
Now, question one,
it says that you have to create a pod
called mc-pod in the mc-namespace with three containers.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Now, if you want you can go to the documentation,
you can search for pod to see an example configuration
and it's gonna give you one.
And so here's one here.
So I'm just gonna copy this
or if you wanted to, you could also do kubectl run
and then you could do mc-pod
and then provide some random image.
We might as well use the image of the first pod.
So I'll just say enginx:1-alpine
and then I could do --dry-run
equals client and then I'll put it to a YAML file
and I'll just set it as question one
and that way we can make changes to it.
So now if I open question one,
we can see we have a base configuration.
All right, so I'm gonna go ahead
and start updating the field.
So the pod should be called mc-pod,
which we have,
we don't really need a label
because it doesn't really say anything about labels.
So I'm gonna remove that line
and then we'll just remove the creation timestamp.
Now, it says that the first container
should be named mc-pod-1
so let's set the name to be mc-pod-1
and it should use the nginx-1-alpine image,
nginx-1-alpine image.
So we have that,
but it says that we have to set an environment variable
node_name
and it should be set to whatever node
the pod gets deployed on.
So how do we do that?
So to set a environment variable, you do env,
and then you set the name of the environment variable,
which as per the question,
it should be node_name.
And then we have to set the value.
Now, this value
is kind of dynamic based off the node it gets assigned to
so to do that we say, value from
and you say fieldRef
and then you say fieldPath
spec.node name
And so that will give it the name of the node
and pass it into this environment variable.
Okay, so we have all of that done up to here.
Now we have to create a second container.
So we're gonna do the same thing.
Second container,
the name should be
mc-pod-2.
The image should be busybox:1
and what it should do is
it should continuously log the output
of the date command to the following file every second.
And so to do that
we'll say command.
And so we have to change what
the command is going to run within the container.
And here we'll just say "sh"
So this is how we log that date command,
we say "-c"
And then here we provide the command.
And I'm just gonna copy and paste this
because it's a little long.
Okay? And so basically while true,
which means it's gonna continuously do that,
run the date command and output it to this file
and it's gonna do it every second.
All right?
Then the next thing that we have to do
is the third container should have the name
mc-pod-3.
So let's go ahead and create that.
So if your mc-pod-3
and then the image should be busybox.
And then what we wanna do is,
let's see, what does it have to do?
So it should print the contents
of the date dot.file generated by the second container.
So this file here,
it should print the contents of that file
in stdout.
So we need for pod-3 in this case
to have access to the same file system as pod-1.
But right now, they're not gonna have the same file system
because there are two separate containers, all right?
So when he writes it to here, var/log/shared/date.log
this guy's not gonna have it.
So for them to have access to the same file system,
we have to set up a volume.
And it also says use a shared non-persistent volume.
So I'm gonna add a volume here.
So you just say volumes,
and then we'll give it a name,
we'll just call it shared-volume
and then what we wanna do
is we wanna look at this keyword non-persistent volume.
So a non-persistent volume
that we can use is called emptyDir.
So this will last the lifetime of the pod,
but then once the pod goes away,
you'll no longer have it
so it's just temporary
and it's not gonna actually persist.
But this will allow us to share the file system
between two containers in our pod.
And then at this point,
we can then mount it in our containers.
So for pod-2, I'm going to
mount it
doing volume, and there's a typo there,
so mounts,
this is gonna be name,
so what's the name of the volume? It's called shared-volume
and then we wanna set the mountPath
to where do we wanna mount it?
Well, let's do var/log/shared
because we just really care about that date.log file.
So I'll do var/log/shared.
And the nice part is I can just copy this
and then do that for the
third container as well.
Okay? So now,
pod-3
in var/log/shared,
he'll have access to the date.log
because it's all part of that emptyDir volume.
So now they can share the file system.
And so now what we can do is
we can actually print the contents of that file.
So we'll do command,
we're gonna change the command that runs in the container
"sh"
"-c"
and then the command is
we basically wanna tail that file.
So we'll do tail -f /var/log
/shared
/date.log.
Okay? And we can do that because once again,
we're mounting that volume in var/log/shared
so we have access to that date.log file.
And that should be everything that we need,
so let's go ahead and save this
and I'm going to apply it
and it looks like I have a typo.
So I'm gonna just open that up
and we can see that the typo is
right here
and it's gonna be the same thing here.
And then, now I will apply it
and we can see the pod was created
and if we wanna verify that everything's working,
let's go to pod-3
and let's take a look at the logs for pod-3
because it should be printing out the contents of that file.
So I'll do cube kubectl,
name of the pod, it's mc-pod,
I'll do kubectl logs,
then the name of the pod
and then we want to tell it
which container we wanna grab the logs for,
so we do -c
and we want mc-pod-3.
And then, I'll do a -f so we can follow the output.
And you can see it's outputting all of the dates
that are being printed by pod-2.
So that's all we have to do for question one.
Let's now move on to question two.
Okay, so for question two,
it says that this needs to be solved on node one
and we can go ahead and SSH to it.
So let's SSH to it now
and I'll just go node01
and it looks like we have to use these credentials.
So, we'll do SSH
and what we do is the username,
which is Bob@node01
so that'll try to authenticate us as Bob,
then I can put the password in here.
Okay, so we're now connected to node01 as Bob.
Now, as an administrator,
you need to prepare node01 to install kubernetes.
One of the steps is installing a container runtime.
Install this cri-docker as packaged here,
which is located in /root.
So let's take a look at /root.
I think I'm in slash...
Okay, so let's go to /root.
It says permission denied because I'm logged in as Bob.
So if you wanna just switch to the root user,
you could just do sudo su
and now you're gonna be the root user
and you can see that change in the prompt.
Now I can go to /root
and we can see that we have this package right here.
So we have to install that package
and ensure that the cri-docker service is running
and enable to start on boot.
So how do we install that?
Well, we could do
the dpkg command
-: i and then we do ./
and then the path to that file
that's gonna go ahead and install the package for us.
And after it's installed,
we have to now start the cri-docker service.
So I do systemctl start, cri-docker.
Now, if I do a systemctl status,
it should show that it's running
and then, this is what we wanna look for,
active running. That's good.
And then finally it says,
and it should be enabled to start on boot.
So to set it to automatically start on boot,
we have to change this to be
enable.
All right, so now it's enabled,
we've performed all the steps that we need to
for question two
and we shouldn't have to do anything else.
And if you wanna check if it truly is enabled,
you could do systemctl is -enabled
cri-docker
and we can see that it's enabled.
So everything should be good to go.
Let's move on to question three.
So for question four it says,
on the control plane node,
identify all the CRDs related to the Vertical Pod Autoscaler
and save their names into a file in /root
/vpa
-: crds.txt.
So let's move back to the control play node.
And so to see the all of the CRDs on our system,
you can do kubectl get crd.
And if you want to see which ones are associated
with vertical pod autoscaler,
well it's gonna have the name vertical pod autoscaler in it,
if you want, we can just grep for vertical
and that should give us everything we need
so we can see that we have two here.
So what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna copy
this and then I'm going to copy that
and then, I can
go to that file it told us,
which is /root/vpa-crds.txt,
we'll paste it in,
and we don't need this information
so it just wants the name
so I'm just gonna have that
and then we'll remove this as well.
Okay? And then we can go ahead and save that.
And that's all that we need to do for question three.
Let's now move on to question four.
All right, so for question four,
it says create a service called messaging-service
to expose the messaging application
within the cluster on port 6379.
So first, let's make sure that we actually had
that messaging service or the messaging pods.
I'll do kubectl get pod
and we can see if we have the messaging pod.
So to create a service for it,
we can either create a YAML file
or just use the command for it,
The imperative command.
I'm just gonna use the imperative command.
So we can do kubectl
expose
pod,
and the name of the pod, which is messaging.
And then, you specify what port and it says port 6379.
So I'll say --port=6379.
The name should be messaging-service.
Okay?
And then it says that the application
should be accessible within the cluster.
So that means you can only access the service
in the cluster not from outside the cluster,
which means that it should be of type clusterip.
That's gonna be the default type of a service.
So we don't need to add anything else
and we can just run this as is.
So now if I do kubectl get service,
we have the messaging service
and if I do kubectl describe,
and actually I'm gonna do kubectl get pod -o wide
so we can see the IP address of the pod.
And then if I do a kubectl,
describe
service,
messaging-service,
right? You could see
one of the endpoints 172.17.0.9.
So the service is now connected to the pod
and it's gonna forward traffic to that pod.
Let's now go to question five.
So question five says,
create a deployment named hr-web-app
using the image kodekloud/webapp-color
with two replicas.
Okay, so for this
we can do this one of two ways.
If you want to, you could search for deployment
and in the docs,
if you go to the documentation
you'll see that
it'll give you an example of how to create a deployment
or we can use the imperative command,
which a lot of times is a lot easier
though in this case,
this is a very simple configuration.
We could just use the imperative command.
So I could do kubectl,
create deployment,
the name should be hr-web-app.
And then, the image should be
this one right here.
And then the replicas, we do --replicas=2.
And so now if I do kubectl,
I'll get a deployment,
we can see we're still waiting for it to
deploy and we can see if we've got two available.
So everything's up and running,
it's gonna wrap up question five.
Okay, so for question six,
a new application origin is deployed
and there's something wrong with it,
identify and fix the issue.
So there's... let's take a look.
So if I do kubectl get pod,
we could see we have the orange pod
and we could see that we see the init crash loop back off.
So clearly there's a init container
and it seems to be crashing.
So let's take a look at that pod.
We'll do describe pod orange
and let's just start at the top and just work our way down.
So status pending, that's obviously not a good thing.
We keep going down.
So everything else kind of seems normal
and then we have our init container
and our init container,
we could see that state is terminated
and reason is error.
So exit code 127.
So that's not good because remember
for us, for our main container,
if we go down here the orange container,
for it to run, we need the init container
to complete successfully.
This got terminated due to an error.
So if that happens, the pod's not gonna work,
the orange container isn't gonna start.
So we have to figure out why the init container
did not run successfully.
So if we take a look,
and obviously since it crashed,
it's gonna get continuously get restarted,
which is what the pod's designed to do.
It'll keep restarting the init container
until it finally completes successfully
and then it can run the orange container.
So if we see the command here,
so we can see it's running sh -c
and then, uh-oh,
we can see right here,
this is probably the problem,
it's running this sleep two
and that looks like a typo.
Now, that may not be typo,
maybe there is a program called "sleeeep" with four e's.
If we want, we can take a look at the logs
inside the pod to see what's happening.
So if I do kubectl get,
if I do logs, orange and then -c
and then what's the init container's name,
it's just init my service,
this is gonna show us the logs for that init container
and we could see the output,
which is sleep not found.
So there's no program called sleep.
So that's the problem.
And so as you probably expected,
this is the issue with the typo, it should just be two e's.
So let's go ahead and fix that.
Now, I just wanna make sure that this isn't part of a
replica set
or a deployment
doesn't look like it.
So what we're gonna do is I'm gonna do a kubectl
get pod orange
-: O yaml
piper two a file,
call it question6.yaml.
Then I'm gonna open question6.yaml
and we're going to fix this.
So where is that init container?
Right here.
Remove two of the e's
and then we can do kubectl replace
-: f
question6.yaml
and then we do a --force.
And so this is just a shorthand way
of deleting the old orange pod
and then applying this file. So if you do the replace,
it's gonna do both of them at the same time.
So this will be a little bit quicker.
So you could see you deleted it, replaced it,
and then now if I do a kubectl get pod,
we could see it's in the initial, the init stage
and then now we can see it's the running stage.
So we have now successfully finished
fixing the orange pod, it's now up and running.
Let's now move on to question seven.
So for question seven it says expose the hr-web-app
created in the previous task
as a service named hr-web-app-service
and make it accessible on port 30082
on the nodes of the cluster.
Okay, so right there, basically,
there's a couple things happening.
So we have to create a node port service for this deployment
that we had created earlier
and it should be node port listening on port 3082.
And it tells us the web application listens on port 8080.
So let's take a look.
We've got
the hr-web-app here.
So once again we could just copy this and then make changes
or if you want to kind of speed up the process,
we could just run the imperative command.
So I'll do kubectl expose,
we're gonna expose a deployment
and it's gonna be the hr-web-app.
This time we're gonna set the type=NodePort
because we want it to be accessible at from
outside the cluster on port 30082.
So I'll say node port.
And then the port
that the service is gonna listen on
this is going to be port 8080.
And then the name of the service is going to be
hr-web-app-service.
And I'm gonna do a --dry-run
=client -o yaml
and I'm gonna pipe it to a file
so I can make one quick change.
So I'm gonna take a look at the file that I generated
and what we wanna do is we wanna change the node port.
And so here, I'm going to change the node port.
So I'll say nodePort,
and that's gonna be 30082.
We'll then save this, I'll do kubectl apply.
Okay? And then if I do kubectl describe service
hr-web-app-service,
we should have two entries
because there's two pods in this case.
All right? And so that's all we need to do
for question seven.
Let's now move on to question eight.
So question eight says,
create a persistent volume
with the following specifications.
So we have to call it pv-analytics,
provide storage of a hundred mebibytes,
access mode, rewrite many,
and we have to use the type host path.
And this is the path that it's going to store the data
on the local node.
So if you don't know how to create a
persistent volume off the top of your head,
remember you always have access to the documentation.
I always take a look at the documentation,
even when I took the exam myself.
It just makes it so much easier
because you could just scroll down
and there should be an example config,
not there.
Let's see if I could find it.
That's a persistent volume.
Here we go persistent volumes.
So this is an example config,
we're gonna change a lot of it.
So it's okay if it looks a little different
than what you want it to be.
So I'll just call this question8.yaml,
we'll paste that in,
and then just start changing the properties.
So the first thing that we wanna do is change the name.
The name is going to be pv-analytics.
Capacity
100 MI
doesn't really say anything about if we go to access mode,
this should be ReadwriteMany.
So I will change this from read write once to many.
It doesn't say anything about
persistent volume reclaim policy.
So I will delete that.
It doesn't say anything about storage class,
so I will delete that.
It doesn't say anything about mount option,
so I'm gonna delete that.
And then, it's not gonna be of type nfs,
so I'm gonna delete that.
And it's going to be of type host path.
So we say host path
and then we specify the path,
which is gonna be /pv/data-analytics.
All right? And that should be everything.
We've got the capacity,
we've got the access mode,
and then the host path
so we could save this
and then apply this.
Now, if I do a kubectl pv,
should be there.
We could see it's an available state.
So everything looks good
and it's gonna wrap up question eight.
So let's now move on to question nine.
All right, so for question nine
it says create a horizontal pod autoscaler
with the following name
for the deployment called kkapp-deploy
in the default name space with the webapp-hpa.yaml file
located on the root folder.
So there's already a file for us.
So if we take a look at /root/webapp,
you can see we've already got a base config
for a horizontal pod autoscaler.
So it's telling us to use that.
And what we wanna do is ensure that the HPA
scales the deployment based on CPU utilization,
maintaining an average CPU usage of 50% across all pods
and configure the HPA to cautiously scale down pods
by setting a stabilization window of 300 seconds
to prevent rapid fluctuations.
So,
once again, we can always use the documentation.
So there's two files here.
We've got horizontal pod autoscaling,
so this is gonna go over the basics
of setting up horizontal pod autoscaling.
And then we also have a walkthrough.
So this is gonna just do a full walkthrough on
how to set everything up.
I definitely recommend you take a look at this.
This is gonna cover everything you need to know,
but let's go ahead and make the changes
that it wants us to make. So I'm gonna open up this file.
So first of all,
the name should be webapp-hpa,
which is this one.
It's going to be in the default namespace,
so that looks good.
And it's going to apply to a deployment called kkapp-deploy,
which it does.
So it set up all of that for us
and it already provided a minimum replicas
and a maximum replicas.
So now we have to configure it so that
it maintains an average CPU usage of 50% across all pods.
So let's do that.
So here we're gonna say metrics
and we're gonna say of type resource,
and then we'll say the resource,
the name is gonna be cpu.
Target.
This is going to be type utilization.
And then we say the average utilization
is going to be 50.
And so that's going to cover this requirement right here.
And then we have to configure the HPA
to cautiously scale down pods
by setting the stabilization window to 300 seconds.
So how do we set the stabilization window?
Well, if we take a look at the docs
and just look for a stabilization,
and this is how we set the stabilization.
So we do behavior,
scale down, stabilization window seconds,
and then whatever time it specified.
So I can just copy this
and then I'm gonna go right here,
paste it.
So behavior, and it looks like it messed up the formatting.
So this should be indented over
and this should be indented over
and it should be 300 seconds.
So we can just leave it as that value.
And that should be everything that we need.
So we can now do a kubectl apply,
it got created.
And if I do a kubectl get HPA,
we can see our HPA,
we can see 50%
minimum pods, two, max pods, two.
And so that's going to wrap up question nine.
Let's now move on to question 10.
All right, so for question 10,
we have to create a Vertical Pod Autoscaler
with the following name
for the following deployment in the default namespace,
the VPA should automatically
adjust the CPU and memory request of the pods
to optimize resource utilization.
Ensure that the VPA operates in auto mode,
allowing it to evict and recreate pods
with updated resource requests as needed.
Okay, so what we need to do,
let's create our YAML file.
And so we we'll provide the base configuration,
I'm just gonna paste this in.
So the API version for a vertical pod autoscalers
autoscaling.k8s.io/v1.
The kind is gonna be a VerticalPodAutoscaler.
Then we have to provide the usual metadata.
So the name,
this is gonna be analytics-vpa.
If you wanna provide a namespace,
this one's gonna be in the default one.
Then we have to provide the spec.
So we do the targetRef
apiversion.
So remember we're gonna point it to a deployment.
So this should be apps/v1.
Kind should be deployment,
and then the name should be
analytics-deployment,
right?
That's the name they provided right there.
And then, we want to set the
update policy
to be update mode set to
auto, all right?
And that's going to satisfy that condition,
and that should be everything that we need.
So where we can then go ahead and just do a kubectl apply.
And that's going to create our VPA.
All right, let's move on to question 11 now.
So for question 11, it says,
create a Kubernetes Gateway resource
with the following specifications.
So I'm gonna go to the documentation
and I'm going to search for gateway.
And we're gonna take a look at the documentation
and we're gonna look for the gateway.
So there's the gateway class.
That's not what we want.
We want the gateway.
So this is an example configuration.
I'm gonna just grab this
and we can use that as a template.
I'm gonna paste this in
and we can just update the values accordingly.
So the name should be web-gateway.
The gateway class name should be nginx.
The... Oh, the namespace,
we definitely gonna add that.
So namespace should be nginx-gateway,
and then the listener should be Protocol HTTP.
We've got that.
The name should be HTTP.
We already have that.
And the port should be port 80.
So we don't actually have to change anything else.
That's all we need.
So this is a really simple question.
We can just apply this now.
And if you wanna verify it,
you can do kubectl get gateway,
and it should be in the nginx-gateway namespace,
and we can see that right here.
All right, and so now let's move on to question 12.
All right, so for the final question, it says,
one coworker deployed an nginx helm chart
called kk-mock1,
and the kk-ns namespace on the cluster.
And new update is pushed to that helm chart,
and the team wants you to update the helm repository
to fetch the new changes.
After updating the helm chart,
upgrade the helm chart to version 18.1.15.
Okay, so let's break this down step-by-step.
We have a nginx helm chart
that's been deployed to our cluster.
Let's just take a look and see it real quick.
So I'm gonna do helm list.
Okay, we don't see anything,
but that's because it's in the kk-ns namespace.
So I'm gonna do -n kk -ns
namespace,
and you can see the release here in this case.
And so you could see the chart is using,
it's called, nginx 18.1.0.
It's saying use 18.1.15.
We have to update the all of the repos
so we can grab the latest version.
So I'll do helm repo.
First, let's see all of the repos that we have.
Okay, so we have this one repo called kk-mock1.
I'm gonna do a
helm repo update.
So it's gonna update it
and grab all the latest charts for us.
And it finished.
Now, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do a helm search,
gonna search our repos,
and I'm gonna search for something called nginx
and I'm gonna just maximize this for us.
All right, and so
we can see we've got a couple of different ones.
We got nginx-intel, nginx-ingress-controller,
and then kk-mock1/nginx.
That's probably the one we want.
If you wanna do a --versions.
And this should be versions with an "s"
We can do that and we'll let that run.
It's gonna show us all of the different versions
for each of the charts.
And we wanna look for just the nginx.
And so you can see all of the different versions.
So it goes all the way from 12.0.1
all the way to 19.1.1.
Let's see if there's an 18.1.5,
and I'm just gonna grep for that.
So I'll do 18.1.5,
and we have that so we can do an upgrade now
so we know which chart,
we know which version we want.
And so we'll do a helm upgrade.
And actually I'm gonna do a,
because I've lost the information,
it's all the way back up and I don't feel like scrolling.
I'm just gonna do a helm list -n kk -ns real quick. Okay?
So I'm gonna do helm upgrade.
We're gonna upgrade the release called kk-mock1
and then the chart that we're gonna use is gonna be,
and we have the chart name here,
which is kk-mock1/nginx.
So that's the name of the chart.
And then we could specify a version that we wanna use,
which is 18.1.5.
And then remember it's gonna be in the namespace kk-ns.
All right?
And we can see that it went ahead and did that.
And now if I do a helm list,
right, we are using 18.1.5.
All right, and that's all we need to do for this question
and that's going to wrap up this mock exam.

--- Mock Exam - 2 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Mock Exam - 2 - Solution : (Optional) ---

Okay.
So what we're going to do is we're going to go over the solutions for the questions in Mock Exam two.
Now in question one, it says that we need to solve this question on cluster one control plane.
And it says that we have to create a storage class named local SC with the following specifications
and set it as the default storage class.
So first let's SSH to that cluster one.
And let's go ahead and create a storage class.
And what I'm going to do is refer to the documentation.
And I'm going to search for the storage class.
So we can grab an example configuration.
And in the file here I'm just going to copy this example.
And I'm going to paste that here.
And so what we need to do is we have to change a few things.
First of all the name has to be local SC.
It says that this should be set as the default storage class.
So to do that, we have to set this annotation with the default class, and we just have to set it to
be true.
Okay.
So we've got all of that done.
The next thing that we do is we have to set the provisioner to be this following provisioner here.
So I'll just copy this.
And then we'll go to the provisioner down here and just paste that.
All right.
And then the next two things that we need is a volume binding mode and the volume expansion mode.
So it says nothing about a reclaim policy.
So we can go ahead and delete this line.
Volume expansion should be enabled.
And we can see that it's set to true.
So that's enabled.
We can remove the mount options.
Volume binding mode should be wait for first consumer.
And we can see it's set for wait for first consumer.
And then we can just remove those other two lines.
We don't need that.
And that's all we need for the following configuration.
We can then go ahead and apply it.
And that's going to go ahead and complete question one.
Let's now move on to question two.
Now for question two.
It's once again going to be on the cluster one control plane which we're already at.
And what we need to do is we have to create a deployment named logging deployment in the namespace logging
dash ns with the replica of one.
And it's got the following specifications.
So the main container should be named app Dash container.
And it should use the following image.
And it should run the following command to simulate writing logs.
And then we have to add a sidecar container name log agent that also uses the BusyBox image and runs
the command that's listed here.
The log agent should display the entries logged by the app container.
So the app container is going to write logs to a file.
Then the log agent will grab the logs from that file and then just print them out.
So that's all it should be doing.
Or actually all it should do is sorry, not print it out, but it should just tail that log file.
So that's all it's going to be doing.
So let's go ahead and create a deployment I'm going to get a example configuration of deployment from
the docs.
I'll just grab this here.
And I'll just say question two dot YAML.
And we can just paste that.
Let's go ahead and update all the fields.
So the first thing we have to do is change the name.
So this should be logging dash deployment.
It should be in the logging ns namespace.
Doesn't really say anything about this label.
So we can go ahead and remove that.
It says that we want replicas of one.
And then the labels for the pods.
It doesn't say it has to be anything specifically.
So I'm just going to set this to be app logger, just so that it's a little bit more realistic.
And then the first container should be named app Dash container.
So we're going to change this to be app Dash container.
And the image should be BusyBox.
We can remove the ports.
And then what this should do is basically run this command.
So we have to change the command of the container.
This is going to take a list.
So we'll do sh c and then.
And let me just copy the whole thing and just delete what I don't need.
And this should be dash C.
And then we can just remove that.
Okay.
So that will overwrite the default command of the BusyBox container or the image.
And then it's going to run this command.
So this will write if you see it's going to write some log entry into a file called app dot log.
So it's just going to write that text over and over to that file.
That's good.
Then we have to add a sidecar container.
The name should be log dash agent image should be a BusyBox.
And then the command that should run.
Is the one provided there which is tail dash f.
Slash var log app dot log.
Now as I said things are going to get a little tricky here because this container is going to be writing
log files to var log.
App.
Log.
Inside its container.
So this container does not have access to that file.
Because this is var log app.
Inside the app container var log app.
App log in.
The log container is completely separate.
So we need a way to sync those together.
And the way to do that is anytime you want to share data or share a file between two containers in a
pod is to use a volume.
So we have to create a volume.
So let's go under spec and let's create a volume.
We're going to call this log volume.
And the type is we could use whatever type we want.
But since this is a scratch data and we don't actually need the data to persist, we just need it to
be available during the lifetime of the pod.
We can use the empty volume type, and this will allow us to essentially treat the var log app log and
share it between the container.
So we have the volume, and then we have to mount it in the same exact location which is var log app
inside both of the containers.
So here I'll go down and I will do volume mounts.
And I'll say name log volume which is referencing this volume.
And we have to say where we want to mount it.
Which is going to be slash var slash log slash app.
And then we can just copy this.
And do the same thing here for the second container.
So we're taking this volume and we're mounting it in var log app inside the first container.
And then var log app inside the second container.
So var log app is going to be basically the same folder in both containers.
So now they all have access to the same file.
And at that point, I think that's all we need.
So let's save this.
Let's apply this and hope there's no errors.
But I assume there's probably okay no typos.
That's good.
And I'm going to check the pod.
And now what we want to do is let's do let's take a look at the logs.
For this pod.
And we specifically want the log agent container.
So I'll do dash c dash log agent.
So this is going to be the logs for that specific container.
And we want to see if it's spitting things out.
So we can see we're seeing entries being spit out by the container.
And I could do a dash f here as well.
I'm just going to follow.
And we can see that it's able to read the log file that the first container is writing to and spit it
out in its standard output.
So that confirms that they both have access to the same data using the volume and the volume mounts.
So that's going to wrap up.
Question two.
We can now move on to question three.
All right.
So for this question that says a deployment named web app that is running in the ingress NS namespace
and exposed via service name webapp SVC, create an ingress resource called web App Ingress in the same
namespace.
Traffic to that service.
And we can see all of the requirements here.
So let's go ahead and just verify the deployment.
I always like to take a look and see that it's actually running.
So I'll do a kubectl get deploy dash n ingress dash s.
We can see it's running.
And let's take a look at the service.
And we can see the web app SRV.
So we're going to now create an ingress.
We're going to create an ingress.
So I'm going to create a new file.
And I'm going to take a look at the documentation.
And we're going to see an example configuration for ingress.
So I'm just going to search for ingress.
It's usually the first result.
And we can see we have an example here.
And so I'm just going to paste this.
So we're going to have to rename the name of ingress.
It says it's going to be called WebEx dash ingress the namespace.
So this is going to be the same namespace as the deployment and the service.
So this has to be ingress dash ns.
Okay.
So what do we put for the ingress class name.
I'm going to actually save this for a second.
And we'll do a kubectl get ingress class.
And we can see that it's called nginx.
So I'm going to change this to be not nginx example.
Pole but actually nginx.
Okay.
And so we've got the base configuration for the ingress.
The next thing you have to do to take a look at the parameters we can see here.
It's got to be configured for the Host Cloud Ingress app.
You got to use a path type prefix route request center path slash.
So the root path to the backend service forward traffic to port 80 of the service okay.
So that's pretty straightforward.
So we've got a rule here but it's not for a specific host.
So I'm going to add that here.
So I'll just hit enter.
And then here we just put in the word host.
And I don't know why it always moves over I don't want it to do that.
So host code cloud dash ingress dot app.
You can see it's going to use path type prefix.
We got to change the path.
So the path has to be just the root path.
So that's this line right here.
So we've now knocked out this line and this line, and we have to forward traffic to port 80 of the
service.
So what's the service name.
It's going to be webapp Dash SVC.
And it's got a forward traffic on port 80.
So that's all we need to do.
I'll save this.
And we can go ahead and test this out.
By sending a curl request.
And we can see we're able to access the default nginx document page which confirms that our ingress
configuration was correct.
So now move on to the next question.
So for question four it says create a new deployment called nginx.
Deploy with the following image n1 replica.
So we've created the deployment.
And then we have to upgrade the deployment to version 1.17 using a rolling update.
So to do that what I'm going to do is I'm going to do kubectl create deployment.
We'll give it the name the question which is nginx deploy.
Specify the first image which is going to be nginx one dot 16.
And I'm going to just spit this out to a file by doing dash dash dry run equals client dash o YAML.
And I'll set this to be question four YAML.
So I'll open this.
So we get the base deployment file so we can go ahead and apply this.
Keep in mind it says that we need to use rolling updates when it comes to the strategy type of deployment
on how you actually upgrade to newer versions.
There's multiple strategy types, right.
You could say the strategy field here.
And if you want a rolling update, you have to set type to be rolling update.
Now we don't need to do this because this is the default one.
So this is the default one.
We can actually go ahead and remove this.
It's going to perform a rolling update for us.
So I'll save this.
We can do a kubectl apply f.
Now if I do a kubectl get deployment we can see our deployment.
If I do a kubectl rollout history deployment.
We can see all of the versions.
There's only one at the moment.
And if you want to see information about that we could say dash revision.
Equals one.
And we can see that it's running 1.16.
So now let's go ahead and change it to version 1.17.
So we'll do kubectl set image deployment nginx deploy.
And we want to set the container called nginx.
X set the image of that to be nginx 1.17 now.
And so now if I do roll out history, we can see there's two versions and the latest version.
Should be version 1.17.
There you go.
So we're now done with question four.
Let's now move on to question five.
So for questions five it says create a new user called John.
Grant him access to the cluster using a CSR named John Developer.
Create a role developer which should grant John the permissions to create, list, get, update and
delete pods in the developer namespace.
His private key exists in this location and there's already a certificate signing request at root John
Slash CSR.
So let's take a look at that.
I'm just going to cat those two files.
So we've got root CA John Key.
So that's his private key.
And if you want to see the certificate signing request that they already created, this is the certificate
request.
Okay.
So now what we have to do to give him access to Kubernetes is we have to create a certificate signing
request Kubernetes object.
So this is the certificate request itself.
But we have to create a Kubernetes object.
And then that will eventually give him the final certificate that will allow him to access the Kubernetes
cluster.
So how do we do that?
I'm going to go to the documentation and search for certificate signing request.
And we're just going to scroll down.
Let me see if I can find an example.
All right.
So it's going to start off looking like that.
Let me see if there's a full example.
I don't think there's going to be a full example.
It doesn't look like there is a full example.
There might be managed TLS certificates in a cluster.
No, it doesn't look like there's a good, clear example of this.
Just some.
Maybe here.
I thought there was.
Oh, so this is probably the one we want.
So it gives us the imperative commands to create the certificate signing request.
Oh here we go.
So this is what it looks like.
All right.
So remember this.
It's going to be under TLS issue a certificate.
So this is what it's going to look like.
You're going to have kind certificate signing request.
You have the request property which is actually the CSR itself.
It's going to be base64 encoded.
You've got the signer name.
Usually leave it to that default value.
You could provide an expiration and then it's specific usages.
So let's create that I'm going to do VI.
Question Five dot YAML.
So this is going to be the API version and kind I'll just paste that in.
So it's going to be of type certificate signing request metadata.
The name should be John Developer.
And then the spec here we have to provide the signer name.
And we can even see that as of Kubernetes version 1.19 the certificate signing request object expects
to sign a name.
This is going to be that value that we just see here.
So we can just copy this.
And then we have to provide the request which is the certificate signing request.
So that without closing this I'm just going to go terminal two.
We could just cat slash route CA A slash.
That's the certificate signing request.
But the problem is, we can't just copy this and paste it into here because this property expects it
to be base64 encoded.
So to encode to base64 encoded we could say cat slash root CA.
Transfer.
And then to base64 encoded we do pipe base64.
And then we want it to spit out in one line.
So we say the following command here.
So that's going to base64 encoded.
And you can see it's all going to spit out in one line.
Then we can take this and then we can paste it here.
And then the last property that we need to have is going to be the usages.
And we're going to use the following which is digital signature.
Key Encipherment.
And then client auth.
Okay.
So we have the CSR object.
We'll do a kubectl apply f question five dot YAML.
And now if I do a kubectl get csr we can see we've got the John developer certificate signing request.
That's pending approval.
So to approve or reject it we do kubectl certificate approve.
And then it would be John Dash developer.
So we're approving this certificate signing request.
So now if I take a look at this again we can see it's approved.
And more importantly if I do a describe actually instead of describe I do to get CSR John developer
and then we'll just do dash o YAML.
Right.
You have the original request here.
But if you go down under status it's going to spit out the certificate.
So this is the certificate that a user will use to be able to authenticate and talk to your Kubernetes
cluster.
And this is base64 encoded.
So you're going to have to base64 decode it.
And then at that point he can use that certificate to authenticate with the Kubernetes cluster so that
your user has everything.
But at this point we can now authenticate the user.
But we also have to now make sure that he can have the proper permissions to perform various operations
on our cluster.
This is the authorization aspect of Kubernetes.
And so this is what we're going to do.
We're going to create a role called developer which will grant John the permission to perform all of
the following things.
So let's go ahead and set that up.
I'm going to create a new file.
I'll just call this question five.
How about dash Rbac.
So this is going to contain all the Rbac configuration.
So we want to create a role named developer.
So we'll start off here.
We're going to set the kind to be role.
The name is going to be.
Developer.
And create a role developer which grants permission to perform these operations in the developer namespace.
We have to make sure we set the namespace to be development and then rules.
So this is going to be what can you do.
So we'll say API groups.
Now the API group is going to be set to be empty.
And that's because we're giving them permissions for pods which are part of the core group.
So whenever you use the core group you just leave that empty.
You say resources.
What resources are we working on?
It's going to be pods.
And then what can he do?
Let's list it out right here.
So I'm just going to copy this.
And we also have to make sure that we remove that.
And then we need everything in quotations.
All right.
And we can go ahead.
And pretty much that's going to be everything we need for the role.
But then we also have to set up a role binding to assign this role to John.
So I can create another file.
But I'm just going to actually just do everything in the same file.
So I'm going to create another Kubernetes object.
And you can create multiple objects in one file by separating them with three dashes.
We're going to create a role binding.
And we'll say.
The name.
And I'll just call this John developer role binding.
And the namespace should be development.
So what user are we assigning to a role.
It's going to be the John user.
So I'll say kind.
It's going to be user name John.
And then the API group.
Is rbac.authorization.k.io.
And we have to assign them to a role.
So we'll say roll ref kind is going to be role.
Name.
What's the name of the role that's called developer.
And an API group.
And we can just copy this.
And then we can go ahead and apply this.
And it looks like there's an error.
So it says unknown field subject.
And I already know what the problem is.
This should not be subject.
This should be subjects with an S.
So let's try to apply that.
So we've got the role the role binding.
Let's go ahead and test it out to see if John has the proper access for everything he needs and the
way that you could test out access for a user, you could do kubectl auth can I and you can test what
you have access to.
So if I do auth can I and he can create list get update pods.
We'll say create pods.
But right now this is going to test if I the current user can do it.
But we don't want to test.
If I could do it I already know I can do it.
We want to test it as a user John.
So we do dash dash as equals.
John.
And then obviously in the namespace development.
So John can create pods in the development namespace.
But then if I try to use one of the other namespaces that he doesn't have permission for, like the
default namespace, you could see he doesn't have permissions.
So we've now successfully given John access to the Kubernetes cluster with the proper permissions.
All right.
So let's go to the next question now.
All right.
So for question six it says create an nginx pod called nginx resolver using the image nginx and expose
it internally with the service called nginx resolver service.
And then test.
You're able to look up the service and pod name from within the cluster.
And so use the image BusyBox 128 for the DNS lookup, record the results in nginx and nginx.
Okay, so the first thing that we'll do is we're going to create this nginx pod.
So I'll just use the cube CTL run command to do this quickly.
So we'll do nginx dash resolver.
And the image is going to be nginx.
Now we have to create a service for it so that we can access it.
And you have to look at the words pretty carefully.
But it says expose and expose it internally with the service called nginx resolver service.
So this should only be accessible internally from within the cluster.
That's a that's basically a code word for saying cluster IP.
Because the cluster IP is only accessible from within the cluster, we can't access it from outside
the cluster.
If you want access outside the cluster, you can use Nodeport or load balancer.
But internally we're going to use cluster IP.
So I'll say kubectl expose pod nginx resolver.
We'll give the name of the service which is nginx dash resolver dash service dash port equals 80.
And the target port.
Equals 80.
And then the type of service is going to be cluster IP.
Now let's verify this.
So if I do kubectl get service kubectl describe service.
Let's see if it's working.
And you can see we've got one endpoint which is going to be the one pod that we created.
And you can verify that by doing kubectl get pod o wide and you can see if the nginx resolver has an
IP address of 1727.1. 18.
So we can see that the service is working as it should.
So then it says test that you're able to look up the service and pod names from within the cluster.
Use the BusyBox 128 for DNS lookup.
So we basically have to create an ephemeral container that will allow us to run one command.
And then we can just delete it afterwards.
So we'll do kubectl run test dash nslookup dash dash image equals BusyBox 128.
We'll do rm which means once we detach from it, the pod will get destroyed.
Dash dash restart equals never.
And then we'll run the command that we want.
So if we do nslookup.
And then the name of the service which is nginx dash resolver dash service.
Let's see what it says.
All right.
And we can see that it resolved to the IP address of the service.
And if I go here we can see the service is one 7220 .175.22.
So that did successfully work.
And it says to store it in this file here.
So we're going to run the same command but output it to a file in slash route slash slash engine x dot
SVC.
All right.
And then now we also get a DNS entry for the pod IP itself.
So if you wanted to you could also grab the IP address of the pod which is here.
And you do 172.
And instead of the dot 17 you replace the dot with the dash 17.
So and then dash one dash 18 dot default dot pod.
And I'm just going to show you what the output looks like.
So the Kubernetes will actually create a DNS entry for the pod IP which looks like this.
And we're going to save this to a file which is slash route slash slash nginx dot pod.
And that'll wrap up question six.
Let's now move on to question seven.
So for question seven it says that you need to create a static pad on cluster one node one called nginx
dash critical with the image nginx.
Make sure that it's recreated restarted automatically in case of failures.
And it says use an example path of slash Kubernetes manifest as the static pod.
So to create a static pod on node one we have to.
If I do kubectl get node we have to create a file that basically the manifest on node one so that it
can create the static pod.
So first of all I'm going to do kubectl run and it says it should be called nginx critical.
So I just want to get the the YAML file for creating a pod real quick.
And I'll just do this here.
Critical engine x dash critical.
That's what I correct.
Let me just copy this.
Dash dash image equals nginx.
And we're going to do dash dash dash run equals client dash o YAML.
And we're going to put it out to a file called static YAML.
And if I just cat that we have this.
So now that we have this I'm going to ssh to node one.
Okay.
So we're on node one.
And I'm going to go to this slash Etsy Kubernetes manifest.
This is where we're going to put all of the manifest files for all the static pods.
I'm going to create a.
I'll just call it static dot YAML.
It doesn't really matter what it's called.
And before I do that, let me just copy this because we have this.
So I'll paste this in here.
So we've got the manifest.
Oh oh looks like I got disconnected.
So let me ssh back.
And then gives you target mode.
All right.
So I've got the file here I'm just going to go ahead and save this.
So inside that node because remember we need a static pod in node one.
We just have to go to slash Etsy slash Kubernetes manifest.
And then we can just create the manifest file for a pod that we want created statically.
Aesthetically if we take a look, that's what I have.
So now if I exit out of here and go back to my control plane node, I'll do a kubectl get pod.
I'm going to do a dash o wide.
And you can see nginx critical.
And you'll see that when it names a static pod it's going to assign it to the node name.
So it does dash node name.
And we can see it's on node one.
So that is a static pod.
And that is how you create a static pod within Kubernetes.
So let's now go to question eight.
So for question eight it says create a horizontal pod autoscaler with the main back end HPA for the
deployment named backend dash deployment in the backend namespace with the webapp dash HPA YAML file
located on the root folder.
So they've given us a file that has some base configurations.
We can just modify that and show that the HPA scales the deployment based on memory utilization, averaging
on average between maintaining an average memory usage of 65% across all parts.
Configure the HPA with the minimum of three replicas and a maximum of 15.
So let's open up that file and it's going to be under the root folder.
So it should be here.
And so it's called web app dash HPA YAML.
Okay.
So what we need to do is first name the horizontal pod autoscaler which we have a configuration for
as back end HPA.
So we're going to change this here.
And this is going to be in the backend namespace.
So that's good.
It's going to target a deployment called backend deployment.
So this has to be updated as well.
The deployment should be called backend deployment.
The minimum replicas should be three.
Maximum should be 15 which we have here.
So that's good.
And then now let's go ahead and set up the metrics.
So we need to maintain an average memory usage of 65% across all pods.
So we'll say metrics dash type resource.
And we'll say resource name is memory.
Target.
We're going to set that to be utilization.
And then average utilization is going to be 65.
And that's because of this right here.
So then we can go ahead and save this.
And then we'll apply.
And let's just do a describe just to see what it shows.
And we could see we've got minimum replicas, three max 15 metrics resource memory and pods 65%.
Perfect.
So that wraps up question eight.
We can now move on to question nine.
All right.
So for question ten it says SSH to cluster one.
So let's do that before we proceed any further.
And it says modify the existing web gateway on A5673 namespace to handle Https traffic on port 443 for
Cockeyed.com using TLS certificate stored in a secret named code cloud TLS.
Okay, so we have an existing gateway.
So let's take a look and say cube CTL get gateway dash NA5673.
three.
We can see we've got this.
I'm going to output this to a YAML file.
So that we can make changes to it.
And also it says that we have to use the TLS certificate stored in a secret name code called TLS.
Let's take a look and make sure that we have that.
So I'll do get secret dash and CA 5673.
And you can see we've got the TLS.
So everything's looking good.
Let's open up that file now.
Okay.
So it says modify the existing gateway to handle Https traffic on port 443 for code Cloud.com.
Okay so we got the spec.
We can see that it's listening on port 80 and the protocol is HTTP.
We needed port 443 and it needs to be Https.
So let's change that.
And that's going to be https.
The hostname.
Should be code cloud.com.
As per that.
And then we need to set up the TLS.
So we'll say certificate.
Hrefs.
Dash name.
And then we'll do code cloud dash TLS.
So it's going to point to that secret that we saw earlier.
And that's all we need to do for this specific configuration.
I'll just go ahead and apply that.
And that should be everything that we need for question ten.
Let's now move on to question 11.
So for question 11 it says on the cluster.
The team has installed multiple helm charts on different namespace by mistake.
Those deployed resources include one of the vulnerable images called code Cloud Slash webapp v1.
Find out that release name and uninstall it.
Okay, so what we're doing is first of all, we want to list out all of the releases installed.
So we'll do Helm list and then we'll do Dash A for all namespaces.
And we can see that there's several different ones.
There's four of them.
And we have to find the release that has an image that matches this name because this is a vulnerable
image.
So we need to figure out which one it is.
So what we could do is we can go one by one and I'll say helm and there's this command helm get manifest.
So this will show the final manifest generated by one of these releases.
We'll start off with the first one.
Passion.
And if I print this out, you can see it shows us all the final manifests.
And what we're going to do is we're just going to grep for web app color v1.
And you can see that the first one we got lucky.
And that is the one that has that image.
You can go and check each one manually, but this is the only one that has that.
So we know that this is the one that we want to uninstall.
So we can just run the command helm.
And let me actually get the name of that release I'll do helm uninstall the release name.
And then the namespace.
And so now you've removed that vulnerable image from your Kubernetes cluster.
Okay.
So let's now move on to question 12.
All right.
So for this question, it says you are requested to create a network policy to allow traffic from front
end apps located in the front end namespace, to back end apps located in the backend namespace, but
not from the databases in the database namespace.
There are three policies available in the root folder.
Apply the most restrictive policy from the provided YAML files to achieve the desired result.
Do not delete any existing policies, so we want to find one of the policies.
There's three of them that does everything that's being asked of it right here.
And it's as restrictive as possible.
So I will go to and let's see I'm just going to cat all of these.
There's one that's two.
That's three.
So let's start off with one.
And let's take a look and see if it meets the requirements.
So remember we want the front end apps in the front end interface to be able to talk to the backend
apps Up, but not from the databases in the database namespace.
So in this case we can see it's applied to the backend namespace.
If we do select all pods in the backend namespace, and we could see that it's going to select a namespace.
In this case it's got a namespace selector.
So any namespace with access allowed is going to allow them any of the pods in there to talk to the
backend pod.
And more importantly if I do a kubectl get namespace dash dash show dash labels.
Now you can see there's just one label.
Really in this case is backend.
If we take a look at the front end it's got name front end.
And then if we got where's the database.
There's no database namespace in this case.
Okay.
So this isn't really going to match anything in this case.
So I don't think this is the one that we want.
Now if we go to the next one once again, namespace backend is going to select all pods in that namespace
to the backend namespace, and it's going to allow traffic from the front end namespace.
And it's going to allow traffic from the database namespace, which is not what we want, because we
do not want traffic coming from the databases in the database namespace.
So let's go to the third one.
We can see this is applied to the backend namespace pod selector.
Selecting all pods in the backend namespace ingress coming from name frontend.
So this is going to allow traffic coming in from the front end namespace and nobody else.
If the database namespace, nothing from that namespace can talk to the backend namespace, because
when it comes to an ingress policy, it's just going to allow what we have here.
So this is the one that we want.
We can go ahead and apply this.
So I'll just do a cube CTL.
Apply dash f.
And that's all we needed to do.

--- Mock Exam - 3 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Mock Exam - 3 - Solution : (Optional) ---

Instructor: In this video we're gonna walk through
these solutions for all of the questions in mock exam three.
Now for question one, you can see that it says
that you are an administrator preparing your environment
to deploy a Kubernetes cluster using kubeadm.
Adjust the following network parameters on the system
to the following values and make sure
your changes persist reboots.
So these are the two changes that we need to make
so that we can actually run Kubernetes.
And so you'll, anytime you are deploying
or essentially provisioning a new cluster,
you're gonna have to enable these two functionalities
on all of your servers.
To do this, what I always recommend is remembering
that since we are in the process of creating a new cluster,
using kubeadm, most likely to figure out
where we would get the information to do this
inside the documentation, which remember,
you have the documentation available
for you during the exam.
So I definitely recommend you get familiar with it
because you are going to need to reference it
pretty routinely.
Let's go ahead and search kubeadm,
and there's going to be a guide on how
to create a cluster with kubeadm.
And so this is gonna be this guy right here.
So to get there you go, under Production environment,
installing Kubernetes deployment tools,
boots driving a cluster, and then creating
a cluster with kubeadm.
And then what you want to do is the first step
that you always have to do is set up a container runtime.
So I'm gonna open this in a new tab
and here you're gonna see that it's going
to give you directions on how to do that.
So in this section it's showing you how
to enable IPv4 packet forwarding,
which if we go back here, that's going to be the first one.
So I'm gonna do copy this command, which is,
this is going to enable it by modifying this k8s.com file
and essentially enabling it in the file
and then applying the CCTL params without reboot,
which is by running this command.
So I'm going to copy this and I'm going to just save this
in my notepad.
So we have the command for enabling IP forwarding.
And then the last thing that we have to do is just copy
this second line right here and also paste that
right underneath.
So that should be everything that we need to do.
So we can then copy these commands
and then we can just paste it into our terminal
and that's going to enable those two features
or functionalities on our server.
And that's all we need to do for the question one.
And once again, I definitely recommend you guys get familiar
with where to find things in the documentation.
In this case, how to enable IPv4 packet forwarding.
That's going to be under the documentation
for how to set up a container runtime
because the container runtime needs these things
enabled before they can work.
So this is the first step that you need to perform
when you are creating a Kubernetes cluster
before you do anything else.
Let's now go to question two.
Now for question two, we have to create
a new service account with the name pvviewer.
And we need to grant this service account access
to all persistent volumes in the cluster
by creating an appropriate cluster role called pvviewer-role
and a ClusterroleBinding called pvviewer-role-binding.
And then we have to create a pod called pvviewer
with the image redis and service account set
to pvviewer in the default namespace.
So really we have to do three things.
We have to create a service account.
We then have to set up a role
and a role binding so that we can give
that service account certain permissions,
which in this case is to list all persistent volumes.
And then we have to assign that service account to a pod.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So to create a service account, it's a very simple command.
We just do cubctl create serviceaccount.
And one little tip, I always recommend that you guys copy
anytime it gives you a name, whether it's a name
for a pod or a deployment, always copy it
from the instructions because when you go to take the exam
and it performs validation, it's going to look
for the exact name.
So if you make a typo, you're gonna lose points on that.
So here, I'm gonna just paste that in
and that's going to create our service account.
If I do kubectl get surface account,
we should see the pvviewer.
And then the next thing that we have to do is we have
to create a cluster role called pvviewer-role.
That should be able to list all persistent volumes.
So we could do this either using the imperative command
like kubectl create, or we can create a YAML file.
I'm just gonna use the kubectl command.
So I'll say kubectl create.
And then we're gonna create a cluster role.
The name of the cluster role is going to be
the one provided right here.
And then we have to give it permissions.
So it should be able to list all persistent volumes.
So we'll say resource=persistentvolumes.
And then we have to say what actions it can perform
on that by doing-- verb.
And that's going to be just list.
So this will basically create a cluster role
and it'll allow us to list persistent volumes.
So we've created that.
I'll do kubectl, describe clusterrole pvviewer-role.
And we can see that for persistent volumes,
he's able to list them.
Or anybody that has this role assigned to them,
they'll be able to list them.
And then after that we have to create a role binding
so that we can bind the service account to that role
and give him this following permissions.
And so to do that, we'll do kubectl create
clusterrolebinding, and it gives us the name
that it wants us to use.
So I'll just copy that.
And then we say the clusterrole,
is going to be the role that we just created,
which is the pvviewer-role.
And then we wanna assign a service account to that role.
And that service account is in the default namespace.
So I'll say default:pvviewer.
Okay. And so now if I do kubectl,
describe clusterrolebinding,
we should see that it's gonna bind
the pvviewer service account to the role called
pvviewer-role.
All right, and then the final thing I should do is create
a pod called pvviewer with the following image.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm gonna just create a file and I'll just call this one
question2.yaml and let's create the spec for a pod.
So here we get the API version set to V1,
the kind set to pod metadata.
This is gonna be name, and that name is going to be
pvviewer.
And then for the spec, we'll do containers
and we will have a...
It doesn't give us a name that we have to give it,
so you could just call it whatever you want.
I'll just call it pvviewer.
And then the image has to be redis.
And the final thing that we have to do is we have
to assign it the service account to pvviewer.
So I'm just gonna go up here and we'll say
serviceAccountName is going to be pvviewer.
Okay, and so that's how you assign
a specific service account to a pod.
We'll save this file and then we can just apply this.
And then if I do get pod, we'll wait for that
to come online.
There it is.
And we'll do a describe.
And let's just make sure that the service account
is now set to pvviewer and it is.
And that's all that we need to do for question number two.
All right, now let's go on to question number three.
So for question number three, we have to create
a StorageClass called rancher-sc,
and it's gotta have the following configurations.
So for this, if you don't remember how
to create a storageclass off the top of your head,
we can always just go to the documentation
and just search for storageclass.
And we'll take a look at the documentation
for Storage Classes.
It's going to give us an example configuration.
So just copy this and I'm going to create a file
and I'm going to paste it in there
and then we'll just update the properties accordingly.
So first of all, we have to change the name.
It's going to be rancher-sc.
Okay, and then let's take a look at the configs.
So does it expect us to set this
to be the default storageclass?
Let's see, provisioners should be this
volume binding, volume expansion.
Nope. So we can remove this.
I mean it's set to false so it doesn't matter,
but we don't really need this configuration.
But it's the same if you left it
because we want it to be false.
And that's the default anyways.
So we removed that the provisioner should be at
rancher.io/localpath.
So let's update the provisioner.
Okay, does it say anything about a reclaim policy?
It doesn't. So we will remove that line.
Volume expansion should be enabled.
So allow volume expansion should set to be true.
So that's good.
It doesn't say anything about amount option,
so I'm going to just remove that.
Volume binding mode should be WaitForFirstConsumer.
We could see this is already set for
WaitForFirstConsumer.
And so we've now met those three criteria.
We can just remove the parameter down here.
We don't need that.
So that's all we need to do for this file.
We can go ahead and save this and then apply this.
All right, and that's going to wrap up question three.
Let's now go to question four.
So for question four, it says that we need to create
a ConfigMap named app-config in the namespace cm-namespace
with the following key value pairs.
So we're creating a ConfigMap
with those two key value pairs.
Let's go ahead and do that now.
So I'll say kubecto create configmap.
It should be called app-config
and it should be in the namespace cm-namespace
and it's gonna have two key value pairs.
So to pass in key value pairs,
we do --from-literal= and then the key value pair.
So ENV=production.
And then we could just do it again for the next one.
So, -- from-literal=log_level=info.
All right, nd now if I do kubectl get cm-n cm-namespace.
And we'll do a describe.
Gotta move the config map word here
and we can see it's got the two key value ENV production
and LOG_LEVEL info.
Then the next thing it says, modify the existing deployment
named cm-web pp in the same name space
to use the app-config ConfigMap
by setting the environment variables for ENV
and Log_Level in the container from the ConfigMap.
So basically we have to set these two values
as environment variables inside our pre-existing deployment
named cm-webapp.
So let's take a look.
We'll do kubectl get deployment,
and this will be in the cm-namespace.
We can see we've got this.
Now to make changes to this deployment,
I'm just gonna do the kubectl edit command.
But you could, for these mock exams
or for the actual exam, you can always just do kubectl,
get deployment -o yaml, print it out
and make whatever changes and then apply that.
But I'm just gonna do a kubectl edit deployment
and then this is called cm-webapp,
cm-namespace.
Okay, and what we're gonna do is we're gonna find
the container, the container is right here
and we're gonna pass in the ConfigMap
as environment variables.
So we need to pass in both of them.
And so what we can do is we can just say env from
and we'll say - configMapRef, and then we specify the name
of the ConfigMap, which is app-config.
So once we do that, it should update that
and if we do kubectl get pod -n
and then go to that namespace, we could see that
it's been running for 10 seconds
after we made the changes, it updated it.
And that should be all that we need to do
for step or for question four.
So now let's go to question five.
And it says create a PriorityClass named low-priority
with the value of 50,000.
A pod named lp-pod exists in the name place low-priority.
Modify the pod to use the priority class you created
and then recreate the pod if necessary.
So the first thing that we have to do is we have
to create a PriorityClass.
Now I don't know how to do that off the top of my head,
so it's always best to just consult the documentation.
So we'll search for priorityclass
and let's select this Pod Priority and Preemption
and let's just search for PriorityClass.
And it should have an example for us.
And we've got one right here.
So I'm just gonna copy this.
And I'm gonna go back here, I'm gonna create a file,
just name it question5.yaml.
I will paste that here and let's update the values.
So first of all, we have to change the name of the class
to be low-priority, as per the instructions here,
we have to set the value to be 50,000.
And then we can just leave everything else default.
If we wanna update the the description, we can do that.
It's not gonna really make a difference
'cause the instructions don't say anything specifically
about that, but we'll just say, "This is
a lower priority class."
So we can then save that.
We'll do an apply.
So we've applied that.
Then the next thing it says that there's a pod
named lp-pod, which exists in the low priority namespace.
Let's take a look at that.
So do kubectl get pod -n low-priority.
We can see it's running.
We need to modify to use the priority class you created.
So I'll say kubectl get pod.
So we need to get the current configuration of the pod.
So I'll just say get pod lp-pod
inside the low-priority namespace
and I'm going to output that to yaml
and save it as question5-pod.yaml.
Okay, so I'll say vi question5- pod.yaml.
Okay, and what we need to do is now set the priority.
And so to do that we just go under spec
and we say priorityClassName and we set that
to be low-priority.
We'll save that.
And so now we have to make those changes
so we can delete the old pod and then apply the new one.
Or we could just do kubectl replace.
So if I do kubectl replace -f question5-pod.yaml
and we just do a -force.
So that's gonna delete the old one
and then apply the new one.
And you could see that it deleted the old one,
but then we got an error.
It says lp-pod is forbidden: the integer value
of priority 0 must not be provided in pod spec;
priority admission controler competed 50,000
from the given PriorityClass name.
So this error is expected and I recommend you
read this error 'cause it tells us everything
we need to know.
It says the integer value of priority is set to zero
and that's not allowed.
So it's saying that we have manually set the priority
to be zero in the pod, but this is not supported
because we've provided the PriorityClass name
and it competed the value to be 50,000.
So what is the issue?
Let's go and take a look at the file.
You can see we added this priorityClassName,
which translates to 50,000.
But you can see here that from the previous config,
priority set to zero.
So you can't have that.
So if we have to, when we set the priority class name,
we're gonna remove the priority value that's set there.
And now if we do kubectl apply question5-pod.yaml,
we can see it's created, we'll do kubectl get
pod -n low- priority and we can see it's running
with no issues.
And that's all we need to do for question five.
All right, let's now go to question six.
All right, so it says that we've deployed a new pod
called np-test-1 and a service called np-test-services,
incoming connections to the service are not working,
troubleshoot and fix it.
And it tells us basically what we need to do to fix it,
which is create a network policy by the name
of ingress-nptest that allows incoming connections
to this service over port 80.
Okay, so we have to create a network policy to perform that.
So I'm gonna go to the documentation
and search for network policy.
So we can get an example one.
And we've got this long one, we won't need to use
most of the configs, but we'll just use that.
So I will create a file called question6.yaml
and I'm gonna just paste that in there for now.
And actually what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna open up
a new tab and let's go take a look at that pod.
So it's kubectl get pod, we can see np test-1.
And then what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do
-: - show-labels so that we could see what labels
that pod has assigned to it so we could match it
in the network policy.
So we have deployed a new pod called nptest server
and a service called incoming connections to this service
or basically this pod are not working.
We need to create a network policy
that allows incoming connections to this service
or this pod essentially over port 80.
Okay, it's basically allowing any other pod
to be able to talk to it on port 80.
So we're not allowing a specific pod
or a pod with specific labels.
We're just saying anybody that wants to talk
to us on port 80 should be able to.
So let's reopen the configs and in this case
we have to think about the direction the policy is in
from the perspective of this pod,
we're allowing incoming connections on port 80.
So that's going to be an ingress rule.
So we don't need anything that's egress related.
So I'm going to delete anything that's egress related.
All right, so I've removed anything
and everything that's egress related
and in fact I'm just gonna delete everything
from here just to keep it simple.
So the first thing that we have to do is we have
to assign this policy to the np-test-1 pod
and we know what label it has,
which is run-np-test-1.
So under the pod selector we're going to set that
to be run and what is it
np-test-1.
So that's going to take this policy
and apply it to that pod.
We have a ingress rule and this ingress rule
is going to allow traffic from any pod
as long as it goes on port 80.
So to do that we just say- port- protocol: TCP port:80.
And that's all we need to do.
So we'll then apply this.
kubectl apply- f question6 and that's created the policy.
And that's going to wrap up this question.
So now let's go on to question seven.
And it says, taint the worker node,
node 1 to be unscheduled.
Once done, create a pod called dev-redis
with the following image to ensure workloads
are not scheduled to this worker node.
And then create another pod called prod-redis,
an image with this, with the toleration
to be scheduled on node1.
So basically we're gonna taint a node
and then we're gonna create one pod that's not tolerant
to that taint, which is the dev
and the one pod that is tolerant
to the taint, which is the prod one.
And we see the values that we should use for the taint.
So to taint a node and if you want,
you can always take a look in the documentation.
If you just search for taint,
it's probably gonna be the first one.
And so this is gonna have everything that you need
and I'll just walk you through that.
So if we do a kubectl get node,
remember we're gonna be doing this to node1.
So we have to taint node1.
So I'll say kubectl, taint node node1.
And then what we have to do is we have
to provide the key then the value
and then the effect which is no schedule.
So we'll say env_type = production
and then NoSchedule.
And so now if I do kubectl describe node node1
and then grep for taint, we should see that
it has taint now.
Okay, so now what we need to do is create a pod called redis
with the following image.
So I'm just gonna do this as simply as possible just
by doing the kubectl run command
and we just pass in the -- image flag
and that's gonna be set to redis:alpine.
And then the next thing that we have to do
is we to create another pod called prod-redis.
But this time it's going to have a toleration so
that it can be scheduled on node1.
So for this one I'm going
to actually just create a YAML file
'cause I don't really know how to pass those flags in
on the imperative command.
So I'll say question7.yaml.
All right, so we'll start off with the basics.
I'm gonna give it the name that the question
told me to give it, which is prod-redis.
And then the spec, this is going to be the containers.
And that's all we need for the base configuration,
but we have to add a toleration so that it
can be scheduled to node1.
And so to add a toleration, I'm just gonna go to top level
and I'll just say tolerations.
And here we're going to add a list.
So first, what is the effect of the toleration
that we're gonna tolerate?
So the effect is going to be NoSchedule.
'cause remember that's what we set it on.
The node effect is NoSchedule.
Then we you have to provide the key, which is env_type.
The operator, so the ENV type has to be exactly equal to
the value I provide here, which is going to be production.
Okay, and so that's going to allow this pod
to tolerate the taint of node1.
And I'll do kubectl apply -f question7.
And so now if I do a show, sorry, kubectl get pod
and we do -o wide to see what node they're assigned to,
we could see that dev-redis did not get assigned
to node1, it went to the control plane node
and we could see prod-redis was allowed to be scheduled
to node1 because we assigned the toleration to that pod.
All right, and so that's going to wrap up question seven,
let's now go to question eight.
Okay, so for this question it says a persistent volume claim
named app-pvc exist in the namespace stored-ns
but it's not getting bound to the available
persistent volume named app-pv.
It's telling us to inspect both the pvc and the pv
and identify why the pvc is not being bound
and to fix the issue so that the pvc successfully binds
to the pv, do not modify the pv resource.
Okay, so basically we've got a pv, we've got a pvc.
The pvc is not getting bound to the pv.
Should be pretty straightforward.
We'll do a kubectl and let's take a look at the pv first
and it's going to be get pv and I'm gonna just move this out
so it's a little bit easier to read.
Okay, so we've got a pv, we can see the capacity,
we could see the access mode, we could see
the reclaimed policy, we could see that it's available.
Okay, so everything looks good so far.
We'll then do kubectl get pvc
and then it's gonna be in the storage-ns namespace
and we could see it's in a pending state.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to do a -o yaml
just to see the full configuration.
Okay, and so what we want to essentially do is
we wanna take a look at the configs
for the pv and make sure that all of the configs match.
So we need the configs to match
or then it's not able to bind.
So we have to first make sure that the capacity
is large enough.
So the pvc is requesting one gig. That's good.
So the capacity's good.
Let's go ahead and just go through the list
and make sure that everything else is the same.
Let's take a look at the access mode.
So rewrite once is the access mode of the pv.
And if we take a look at the pvc access mode,
ReadWrite many, okay, so this is why it's not binding.
They have different access modes.
So we have to adjust the pvc to match with the pv,
which is ReadWrite once.
So let's update that. So I'm gonna do kubectl.
Actually I can just pipe this to a file,
which I'll say this is question8.yaml.
And then we will change this to be ReadWrite once,
and then I'm going to delete the pvc
and then apply the new config.
So we've applied the new one
and now if I do a kubectl get pvc,
we should see that now the app pvc is bound
and is bound to the app-pv.
So we've now successfully fixed the issue.
That wraps up question eight.
Let's now move to question nine.
Okay, so for this question it says
that there's a kubeconfig file called super.kubeconfig
in the following location and it says
there's something wrong with this con configuration,
troubleshoot and fix it.
Whenever there's a question where it says there's an issue
and we need to fix it, always verify the issue first.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do a kubectl,
I'm just gonna do a get node
and I'll just pass in that kube config file.
CKA/super.kubeconfig.
Okay, and when I run this, let's see what error it does,
unhandled error couldn't get current server API group list.
So connection refused.
So it's connecting to 192.168.9.84 at port 9999.
And it's saying connection refused.
So what exactly is going on?
Let's take a look at the file.
And so we'll go to /root
and I'm actually just gonna cat it.
Okay.
When we use the file, the current context is set
to kubernetes-admin@kubernetes.
The context that's going to be this guy right here.
So it's gonna be using the kubernetes admin.
So let's take a look at that user.
That user here, we could see its client certificate,
we could see its client key and then it's gonna use
the Kubernetes cluster, which is up here.
So this cluster called kubernetes,
we could see the certificate authority data
and we can see the server,
which is at controlplane port-9999.
Now you can see here that when we try to connect
to it on port 9999, it says connection refused.
So it's not listening.
Now usually the API component, the kube, API server,
it doesn't usually listen on port 9999.
It usually listens on port 6443,
but maybe there's like a custom configuration.
So I don't know if this is correct
or I don't know if it's wrong, but let's go and take a look
and see what port the kube API servers listening on.
And for that we can actually use the netstat command.
So I could say sudo netstat- tulnp
And what we could do is we could just greb
for kube- apiserver and we could see that
the kube- apserver is not in fact
listening on port 9999, it's listening on port 6443.
So that's probably the issue.
Let's go ahead and fix that.
So now I'm gonna run that same command
get node and we can see it now works
and that's all we need to do for question nine.
Let's now go to question 10.
All right, so for question 10 it says
that there's a new deployment called nginx-deploy.
And what we need to do is we to scale the replica count up
to three and we need to make sure that it all,
it goes up to three with no issues.
If there's any issues, we have to fix that.
So let's take a look and we'll say
kubectl get deployment nginx-deploy.
And we can see right now one of one ready,
up to date available.
So it's set to one and it's thing that we need
to scale this up to be three.
So we can just run the command kubectl,
scale the deployment enginx-deploy,
and we wanna set the replicas to be three.
So that's gonna scale it up to three.
We will give it a couple seconds,
it's gonna take some time to scale up.
Once it's scaled up, let's go ahead
and run the get deployment again.
And let's see the configuration.
So we can see right now one of three is ready.
So we still only have one available
and we do not have the three that we want.
Maybe just taking a little extra time.
So let's run this again and we could still see
that it's just one available.
So there's clearly something wrong with this.
So what I like to do is if there's an issue
with the deployment, I'm gonna start by doing
a kubectl describe deployment,
and we're gonna take a look at the deployment.
And what I like to do here is just look for any errors.
If you see anything that's like pointing to an error,
whether it's in the configs here, the conditions,
or especially the events, a lot of times the events
will tell us something.
So it says scaled up replica from 0 to 1.
So it doesn't really seem to be doing anything specific
to moving up to three.
So we could see that eight minutes ago.
So this is before we even got to the question,
we could see that the controller told the replica set
that was created by the deployment to go from zero to one,
but we never got a message from the deployment controller
to tell it to go from one to three.
Now I don't know exactly what's going on,
but that's what I would expect to see.
But let's take a look at the replica set.
So I'll do kubectl get replica set.
Now do a kubectl describe replica set.
And the replica set doesn't really tell us
anything interesting, right?
It says 10 minutes ago it created a pod,
but it didn't create the other two pods.
But that's to be expected because the deployment
never told the replica set that it needs to go to three.
So I think this is more interesting
what we see in the deployment, which is that
the deployment controllwr never did its job,
it never configured it to set the replica set up to three.
We only saw the initial configuration from zero to one,
it never went from one to three.
So maybe there's some sort of issue
with the deployment controller
and anytime you see the configurations for your deployments
and your replica sets and you've configured them correctly,
but something's not working, that's usually going to point
to something in the control flight.
Could be a deployment controller, it could be an issue
with the API server, could be a variety of different things,
but always look at the control plane
because that's usually what's limiting us
from making these changes.
So I'm gonna do a kubectl get pod,
and we're gonna look at the kube-system namespace
where all of the control plane components are.
And you know right away you'll notice something,
the kube-controller manager has an issue,
so it's not even running at the moment.
So that would explain why it's not up that deployment
because we need the respective controllers to do that.
So why is it stuck in this image pole back off?
Let's take a look.
And remember all of the control plane components,
they're going to be static pods.
So all of their configuration is going
to be in the etc/kubernetes/manifests.
And then we wanna look for the controller-manager.
Okay, so why isn't it working?
Has an image pull issue.
So there's an issue with the image.
So let's go to the image, it's pointing to registry.k8s.io
kube control, oh okay, so I think we see the mistake here.
So notice how there's a one and then an L,
obviously that's a typo, it should be two L's.
So let's fix that and then let's make sure
that there's no other typos.
And you can see that the command
that's gonna start in the container also has a typo.
It's got that 1 instead of two Ls.
So that's a typo. So we'll fix that.
And it looks like there's just typos all over the place.
It's the same typo.
So if we're gonna just change everything here
to be a controller, and I'm just gonna go one by one
and fix them and let me see if I can find
and looks like there's another one.
Okay, and I think that's it.
So let's go ahead and save that.
And after you save it, it'll automatically make those
changes and deploy the new pod
with the correct configuration.
So I'm gonna hit up a couple times,
get back to see all the pods, and now we can see
the controller manager is up and running with no issues.
And now if I do a kubectl get deploy,
we can see two are available, that's progress.
And now we can see three of three.
And if I do acubectl get pods.
We can see that we've got three nginx deployment pods.
Right, so we've now successfully fixed the issue.
Let's now move on to the next question.
Okay, so for this question it says create
a Horizontal Pod Autoscaler for the deployment
named api-deployment located in the api namespace.
The HPA should scale the deployment based on
the custom metric named request per second.
Targeting an average value of a hundred thousand requests
per second across all pods.
Set the minimum number of replicas to one
and the maximum to 20.
And then once again there's a note
deployment name is available in the api namespace,
ignore errors due to the metric not being tracked
in the metrics server.
Okay, now what I'm gonna do is I'm going
to search in the documentation
for horizontal pod auto scaling
and it should give us a example configuration hopefully.
If not, we could just make it from scratch.
Yeah, I think it's probably better if we just made it
from scratch and I'll just explain everything line by line.
So we'll do question11.yaml, but I believe the configuration
is probably...
Probably just scrolled past it.
But definitely get familiar with the documentation
because if you won't be able to remember how to do
all of these things off the top of your head.
So you wanna make sure you know
where in the documentation you can get an example
configuration so that you could just copy and paste it.
But this shows you how to set certain scaling
policies and whatnot.
So api version.
And so that's gonna be the api version in the kind,
Which is autoscaling/V2.
And then kind is gonna be horizontalPodAutoscaler.
And then we wanna set the metadata.
The name is going to be api-hpa
and the namespace should be api,
as per the question.
Then we'll go to spec the scaleTargetRef.
apiVersion is gonna be apps/v1
and the kind is going to be Deployment
and the name is going to be api-deployment.
So that's the name of the deployment that we wanna scale.
And then we want to go and specify the minimum replicas
and the max replicas, which is going to be based off
of this line right here.
So set the minimum replicas to 1 maximum to 20.
So, we'll say min replicas is 1,
max replicas is 20.
Then we'll say metrics and we'll say type.
So remember we want to set it up so
that every pod averages 1000 requests per second.
So we'll say type is going to be Pods.
And then for the pods we'll say metric.
And then the name of this metric is going to be
requests_per_second.
And we wanna set the target.
So type this is gonna be the AverageValue
and then the AverageValue is going to be 1000.
And that's because it says we want 1000 requests per second.
All right and so that's all we need.
I can go ahead and save this, could do kubectl apply.
And if we want we can do a describe hpa.
And we could see our HPA everything we configured.
And that's all we need to do for question 11.
Let's now go to question 12.
Right, so for question 12 says configure the web-route
to split traffic between web-service and web-service-v2.
And the configuration should be 80% goes to web-service,
20% is routed to web-service-v2.
Note, the web-gateway web-service and the web-service-v2
have already been created and are available on the cluster.
And we could just verify that real quick.
If I do kubectl get service.
We could see web-service, web-service two.
And then kubectl get gateway.
We could see that there's a gateway
called web-gateway.
Okay, so everything has already been configured,
we just have to create the HTTP route.
So let's go ahead and create that.
So I'll go to question12.yaml.
All right, I'm just gonna paste this here.
So we've got the api version, the kind it's gonna be
HTTP route.
And here I'll set the name to be web-route.
And the namespace, that's gonna be the default namespace
because that's where those services are.
And then spec, and then the parentRefs have to point
to the web gateway that we just saw.
And the name of that was web-gateway.
And if you wanna add the namespace,
that's gonna be default again.
So now here we're going to add in the rules.
So we'll do matches and we'll say path.
Type: PathPrefix.
Value is gonna be the root path.
And then we have to tell it the backend.
So the underlying service that we should forward traffic for
this is gonna be for the web-service.
So we could say cache name,
web-service, it's gonna be listening on port 80.
And then we wanna give it a weight.
So remember this should get 80%.
So we'll say the weight is 80,
and then we can add the second one.
And this is gonna be web-service-V2.
Port is gonna be 80.
And then the weight, so this should get 20%,
so that's gonna be 20.
All right, and that's all we need to do.
So basically the route path we're matching right here.
And then this is gonna forward 80% of the traffic to here
and then 20% of the traffic to here.
And then we can go ahead and apply that.
And we've now created our HTTP route.
Let's now move on to question 13.
Okay, so of question 13, one application
called webpage-server-01 is deployed on
the kubernetes cluster by the Helm tool.
And now the team wants to deploy a new version
of the application by replacing the existing one.
A new version of the helm chart is given
in the following location.
Directory on the terminal.
It says validate the chart before installing it
on the kubernetes cluster, use the helm command to validate
and install the chart as successfully installing
the newer version, uninstall the older version.
Okay, so the chart is located in /root/new-version.
That's where it is.
Now to validate a chart, helm has a nice command
called helm lint, and then you just provide a path
to the chart and we can see that it found one chart,
zero charts failed.
Okay, so the chart is good and we shouldn't have
any issues with that.
So we can go ahead and install it.
So we'll do helm install, and then you just provide a path
to the chart.
You could give it whatever name you want in the directions
it doesn't specify a specific name.
And if you want, we can also set up helm
to generate the name.
Okay, so we could see it generated the name,
we could see that's what it's called.
So now if I do a helm list, we could see
the new one we created.
And then now at this point, we can go ahead
and delete the older one, which is the webpage-server-01.
So we'll do helm uninstall, and then I'll paste this.
So now if I do a helm list, the old one's gone,
and that's all we need to do for question 13.
All right, so for the following question,
it says identify the pod CIDR network of the cluster.
This information is crucial for configuring the CNI plugin
during installation, I'll put the pod CIDR network
to a file at /root/pod-cidr.txt.
So to get the pod CIDR, you could do a kubectl get node,
and what we'll do is I'll just grab the control plane node
in this case and I'm just gonna do a -o yaml
and I'm just gonna pipe it to more.
And what we wanna do is we wanna look
for a section called podCIDR.
And you can see under the section here, we can see podCIDR
and we can see the following sent to here.
So this is where we get the podCIDR network.
That's gonna be this one right here.
And so what we wanna do is we just wanna grab
that programmatically and save it to this file.
So what we could do is we could do kubectl get node
-: o json path= and we could say this is gonna return
a list of all the nodes.
So I could say grab items, grab the first one,
which is gonna be the control plane node.
And then what we wanna do is we wanna go under
spec and then podCIDR.
So spec.podCIDR, and then we wanna just pipe it to that file
that tells us which is /root/ pod-cidr.xt.
And let's just cat that file just to make sure that it says
that properly and we can see it's stored it in there.
And that's all we need to do for question 14.
And that's going to wrap up this mock exam.

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Frequently Asked Questions! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- More Certification Tips! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Conclusion ---

-: And there you have it.
We have come to the end
of this incredible learning journey together.
We sincerely hope
that you've had a fantastic experience with us
and that you have gained valuable knowledge and skills
throughout this course.
As you prepare for your exams,
I wanna wish you all the best.
I have complete faith in your abilities,
and I know that you're going to excel.
And remember, hard work and dedication
are the keys to success.
I believe that you have what it takes to achieve your goals.
When you do achieve those victories,
we would be thrilled if you could share your success stories
with us on social media.
Don't forget to tag us in your posts
so we can celebrate your accomplishments with you
and the rest of our community.
If you're looking to gain more practice
before attending the CKA exam,
check out the ultimate CKA mock exam series
that we have recently released on KodeKloud.
This is a special course to gain hands-on experience
in a real exam-like environment.
This is a perfect addition to the mock exams
that you already have in this course.
This series replicates the exam environment closely
with multiple clusters and patterns of questions.
And as this requires a larger lab infrastructure to host,
this is only available on KodeKloud
and requires a KodeKloud paid subscription.
If you're planning for the CKS
Kubernetes Security Specialist certification exam,
then check out the CKS course on KodeKloud.
We cover all the topics needed
to help you clear your CKS certification exam,
and of course, along with hands-on labs and mock exams.
And we also have the KCNA,
the Kubernetes and Cloud-Native Associate
entry Level certification exam prep course.
All of these are exclusively available on KodeKloud,
so it requires a KodeKloud subscription.
But don't worry, use the coupon code UDEMY10
to get a special extra discount
where you purchase your subscription.
Apart from the courses that are available here on Udemy,
we have 40 plus other courses
that are only available on KodeKloud,
plus another 50 plus courses that are planned
for the rest of the year
on Linux, DevOps, and cloud technologies.
Our Linux learning path helps you go
from an absolute beginner to a certified expert on Linux.
You will learn Linux by doing in a completely new way
with a hands-on approach.
And our cloud learning paths help you learn
the basics of popular cloud platforms
and prepare you for certifications,
and then deep dive into each of the services
offered on the cloud platforms with a hands-on approach.
Additionally, with the KodeKloud Pro Plan,
you also gain access to the cloud playgrounds
for all three cloud platforms.
You get instant access to a cloud sandbox environment,
as well as 50 plus DevOps playgrounds.
No more worrying about forgetting to clean up
your environments and incurring cloud costs.
We will take care of all of that for you.
So once again, use that coupon code UDEMY10
to get a special extra discount
when you purchase your KodeKloud subscription.
Well, all the best for your exams.
Thank you for choosing our course,
and we hope that it has been a truly enriching experience.
Until next time, goodbye.

--- What's Next? ---

-: Hello everyone.
This is Vijin Palazhi from KodeKloud
and welcome to the ultimate CKA mock exam series.
(air whooshing)
(gentle music)
(air whooshing)
Now before we begin,
I wanted to talk to you
about some of the prerequisites to consider
before attempting this course.
Now since you're watching this video,
I'm assuming that your CKA exam is right around the corner
and that you have already completed,
the CKA preparation course
with the included mock exams and the Lightning Labs.
Now if this assumption is incorrect,
I would highly recommend
that you complete the CKA preparation course first
and then come back to this series of Labs.
Now this course consists of a series
of comprehensive and challenging mock exams intended
to give you more hands-on practice
before you attend the actual exam.
(upbeat music)
And each test is quite unique
as compared to the regular mock exams and Lightning Labs
that you'll find in the CKA course.
(air whooshing)
As you may already know,
the CKA exam tests your practical knowledge
in five key knowledge areas.
The architecture, installation
and maintenance section consists of 25% of the questions.
Now workload and scheduling is another 15%.
Service networking is 20%, storage is another 10%
and finally,
the biggest section of them all is troubleshooting,
which accounts for 30% of the questions.
Now each of the tests in this series respects the weightage
of these individual knowledge areas
to give you the experience of taking an actual exam.
(upbeat music)
And to take it up another notch,
the questions that you get for this mock exam,
including the knowledge area themselves,
are completely randomized,
which are curated from a large pool of questions
and designed by the KodeKloud experts.
(upbeat music)
Now you'll also find that just like the real exam,
our mock exam series uses multiple Kubernetes clusters.
There are four clusters in total,
some of which are dedicated to specific knowledge areas.
(upbeat music)
By default, the exam taker which is you,
will be locked into what is known as the student-node.
And from here,
you'll be able to access all the other Kubernetes clusters
and also be able to ssh your individual nodes
of these clusters.
(upbeat music)
In total, there are 20 random questions generated
for the entire Lab.
And as I mentioned earlier,
these are randomized across the knowledge areas or sections
and you'll have in total, two hours to complete this exam.
(air whooshing)
At the end of the exam,
the results will be auto-validated
and you'll be presented with a score.
(upbeat music)
All right, so that was a quick introduction
to the ultimate CKA mock exam series.
Let's now jump right in
and go over one of these tests ourselves.
(air whooshing)
All right, so let's now start
and take one of the mock exam test
that's included in this course.
I'm going to click on start course.
And here, you can see that we have in total 10 mock exams.
All of them are randomized.
And for this demonstration,
let's make use of CKA Mock Exam 1.
So once you click on this Lab,
the Lab should load up within 30 seconds,
an average of one to two minutes is to be expected.
But more often than not, it should load within 30 seconds.
There you have it, the first Lab has been loaded.
And here, you can see that we have in total 20 questions.
And the very first question,
is from the section architecture, install and maintenance.
And if you remember, it accounts for 25% of the questions.
So for the first question,
we have to set the context to cluster3.
So before we begin, let me show you all the clusters
that are currently configured.
As you can see, we are currently on the student-node.
And to check all the clusters that are configured,
you can use the command kubectl config get-clusters.
So as you can see here,
we have four clusters in total.
And by default, if you do not set any context,
you should be accessing the cluster1.
So as you can see,
cluster1 which has got two worker nodes,
which is cluster1-node01 and node02.
So in this case, we have to make use of cluster3.
So I'm going to copy this text here
and paste it in the student-node.
So remember, student-node itself is just a client
where you'll find that you log in,
if you open a new terminal,
you'll also log into student-node.
But if you want to access any
of these control planes specifically,
you'll have to make use of the ssh command.
So now I have set the context to cluster3.
And if I run the same command as before,
you'll see that this is a single-node cluster
with just one control plane.
So it's cluster3-controlplane
and the version is 1.24 as of this recording.
And similarly, you can set context for each of the question
and that's something that I highly recommend that you do.
Each question will make sure
that you try to access the correct cluster
by setting the context.
So in this case, let's read the question.
We have to decode the existing secret,
which is called beta-sec-cka14-arch created
in a separate namespace.
So let's attempt this question first.
So I'm just going to check if this namespace exists.
So as you can see, we do have that namespace.
So I'm going to type kubectl get secrets -n.
And here, you can see
that that secret does indeed exist.
So let me get it in a YAML format,
so that we can see the data.
And here,
you can see that the secret is stored here
under the data section.
And what I'm going to do,
is I'm just going to base64 decode it
and put it in that file.
So I'm going to echo this particular string here
and base64 -d.
So all that it says is this is the secret.
Now what we can do is we can redirect that directly
onto that file.
And remember, this says that it has to be stored
on the student-node.
So I'm already on the student-node,
so I'm just going to redirect the decoded secret
to this file.
And that should be it.
Now I'll just scroll through the rest of the questions
and show you the different sections that they belong to.
So as you can see, the first question was of weightage eight
and belonged
to the section architecture, install and maintenance.
The second question is of weightage two,
also belonging to the same section.
Let's just scroll on,
just like any of our current mock exams,
you can scroll back and forth between questions.
But only thing to note is that you have to complete the test
within the allotted time.
If you run over,
it'll automatically end the exam and validate it for you.
But at any given point in time,
you can choose to click on the end exam button
and see the score for yourself.
The third question is also from the same section.
So is the fourth and the fifth one as well.
Now the sixth question as you can see,
is from the troubleshooting section.
If you remember, this section is one of the largest for CKA
and accounts for 30% of the questions.
And moving along, you should find
that the next question is from a different section.
In this case, as you can see,
this is from the scheduling section.
Similarly, you'll find other questions belonging
to other sections,
such as storage and networking in the test.
So once you're happy with your attempt,
you can click on the end exam button
and this should automatically trigger the validation.
So in this case, I've attempted only the question one,
so everything else will be marked as incorrect.
But I just wanted to show you
how to navigate the mock exam series.
And once this is done, I want to reload this Lab again
and show you
that the next attempt can be completely different.
So here, I am trying to launch the Mock Exam 1 again.
So let's do that.
All right, so the CKA Mock Exam 1 is loaded again.
Now if you remember,
in our first attempt,
the first question was to decode the secret.
Now it's completely changed.
So this is completely expected.
All of the questions are randomized.
So you can expect different questions,
each time you attend the same Lab.
Now if you're not sure what the solution is,
the solution will be provided for you at the end of the exam
during the grading process.
So for example,
I did not attempt the first question, this is wrong.
So you will be provided with this solution immediately.
So in case you are stuck,
make sure that you go over the solution that is provided
and then you can try to take the test again.
So that was a quick demonstration
of the ultimate CKA mock exam series.
I hope that you find this really useful
and best of luck with your preparation.
Thank you.
(air whooshing)
(gentle music)

--- Kubernetes Update and Project Videos - Your Essential Guide ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
