

=== Introduction ===


--- Course Introduction ---

(upbeat music)
-: Kubernetes is one of the highest trending technology
in cloud computing, as of today.
Kubernetes had the fastest growth in job searches,
over 173% from a year before.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth
and this is the certified Kubernetes Administrators course.
Kubernetes is the go-to platform
for hosting production grade applications.
Currently, demand for engineers
with knowledge on Kubernetes is on the rise,
and it is the right time
to get your Kubernetes certification
to stand out in the market.
However, it is not that easy,
especially as the exam is practical and hands-on.
You need to know the technology
and you need to have enough practice to make it work
(upbeat music)
Which is why in this course,
we first understand various concepts
using illustrations and animations,
combined with some fun analogies
to break down and simplify complex concepts.
We then design and build our own custom cluster from scratch
and finally run end-to-end tests
to validate that our cluster is fully functional.
(upbeat music)
More importantly, we have coding exercises
where you will practice solving Kubernetes coding challenges
in a live Kubernetes environment, right in your browser.
Yes, you don't need to have a high-end system
or access to cloud platforms
or worry about cloud costs to gain practice.
We will provide you access to actual lab environments
and challenges to practice on.
Our labs are unique,
as in we don't provide a blank environment
and give you instructions to copy and paste.
Instead, every lab is created specifically
for the topic you just learned
and you're asked questions to explore
and identify information in the lab
or do specific tasks.
And your job is to figure out how to do those tasks.
So, we will validate your work
and give you feedback instantly.
In case you're stuck,
we have hints and solutions to help you.
We have hundreds of such exercises
that will give you enough practice
to be confident to appear for the exam.
(upbeat music)
This course has helped thousands of students
clear the certification exam with good grades.
(upbeat music)
You will also have exclusive access
to a community through Slack channel
where you can interact with me
and others and other students
and get your doubts cleared.
The exam gets updated every quarter or so,
and we make sure our courses are updated as well.
Over the past three years,
we have released multiple updates to our courses
to ensure the contents are up to date
with the latest changes in the exams.
You can see a release history
in the beginning of the course.
(upbeat music)
We're also a CNCF certified Kubernetes training partner
so you can rest assured that you are in safe hands.
We're so sure you'll benefit from our course
that we offer a 30-day money back guarantee
so there's nothing for you to lose.
So jump right in, enroll today and I'll see you in class.
(upbeat music)

--- Certification ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we look at some of the details around the Certified Kubernetes Administrators program.
What is it, why you need it, and how to prepare for it.
There is no doubt about the fact that the adoption of Kubernetes is expected to grow exponentially in
the coming years, as seen in the graph from Google Trends.
As per a recent survey conducted by indeed, Kubernetes had the fastest growth in job searches over
173% from a year before.
And so it is important for us to be prepared to establish credibility and value in the market.
The Kubernetes Administrator certification, developed by Cloud Native Computing Foundation in collaboration
with the Linux Foundation, does just that.
It helps you stand out in the crowd and allows companies to quickly hire high quality engineers like
you.
On attaining the certification, you will be certified to design, build and administer highly available
Kubernetes clusters.
You can read more about the certification at CNCF certification.
The exam includes one.
Free retake.
In case you don't manage to pass on the initial attempt, you have one more attempt available for free
within the next 12 months.
The mode of delivery is online.
You can deliver the exam anytime, anywhere, at the comfort of your house.
Since this is an online exam and online proctor will be watching you at all times.
There are a set of requirements that need to be met with respect to the environment.
The room you're attending, the exam from, the system you're using to give the test, your network
connectivity, etc. all of these are described in detail in the Candidate Handbook available on the
certification website.
Unlike most of the certification exams out there, the Kubernetes certification is not a multiple choice
exam.
It is an online performance based exam that tests your hands on skills with technology.
This would mean that you don't have to worry about memorizing lots of different numbers in preparation
for the exam.
However, you need to know how the technology works and how you can get it to work.
You will be given different tasks to complete in a set amount of time, which happens to be three hours
for this exam.
As per the exam guidelines, you will however, be able to refer to the Kubernetes official documentation
pages at all times during the exam and in this course, we will walk through how to make best use of
the documentation site so that you can easily locate the right information.
Well, I wish you good luck in preparing for and delivering the Kubernetes certification exam, and
I'm sure with enough practice you will pass with flying colors.
So let us begin.


=== Core Concepts ===


--- Course Release Notes ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Scheduling ===


--- The Kubernetes Trilogy ---

-: Hello there.
Before we begin, I wanna spend a minute
on the Kubernetes series of courses.
Kubernetes is one of the most trending technology
in cloud computing as of today.
It is supported on any cloud platform
and supports hosting enhanced and complex applications
on various kinds of architectures
that make it a vast and complex technology.
There are a set of prerequisite knowledge required
such as containers, applications, yammel files, et cetera.
A lot of topics to discuss,
a lot of concepts to cover
such as the architecture, networking, load balancing,
a variety of monitoring tools,
auto scaling, configuration, security storage, et cetera.
There are students from different backgrounds
such as the absolute beginners to Kubernetes
or those with some experience
looking for specialized knowledge in administration
or those from an application development background.
And there are two certifications in the mix as well,
one for the administrators
and another for the application developers.
Covering all of these topics for all of these students
in a single course is an impossible task,
which is why we created a three course series
so each course can target specific audience,
topics, and certifications.
The Kubernetes for the Absolute Beginner's course,
The Certified Kubernetes Administrators course,
and The Certified Kubernetes Application Developers course.
Let's look at what we cover in each of these courses.
The Kubernetes for the Absolute Beginner's course
helps a beginner having no prior experience
with containers or container orchestration
get started with the concepts of Kubernetes.
As this is a beginner's course,
we do not deep dive into technical details.
Instead, we focus on a high level overview of Kubernetes,
setting up a symbol lab environment to play with Kubernetes,
learning the prerequisites
required to understand and get started,
understanding the various concepts to deploy an application
such as pods, replica sets, deployments, and services.
This course is also suitable for a non-technical person
trying to understand the basic concepts of Kubernetes
just enough to get involved in discussions
around technology.
The Kubernetes for Administrators course
focuses on advanced topics on Kubernetes
and in-depth discussions into the various concepts
around deploying a high availability cluster
for production use case,
understanding more about scheduling, monitoring,
maintenance, securities, storage, and troubleshooting.
This course also helps you prepare
for the certified Kubernetes administrator exam
and gets you verified as a Kubernetes administrator.
The Kubernetes for Developers course
is for application developers
who are looking to learn how to design, build,
and configure cloud native applications.
Now, you don't have to be
an expert application developer for this course,
and there's no real coding or application development
involved in either this course or the certification itself.
You only need to know the real basics of development
on a platform like Python or Node.js.
This course focuses on topics relevant
for a developer such as ConfigMaps,
secrets and service accounts,
multi container pods, readiness and liveness probes,
logging and monitoring, jobs, services, and networking.
This course also helps you prepare
for the certified Kubernetes application developer exam.
All of these courses are filled with coding exercises
and quizzes that will help you practice developing
and deploying applications on Kubernetes.
Now, remember, that there are some topics
that overlap between these courses,
so we recap and discuss them as and when required.
Now, you don't have to take these courses in order.
If you're an administrator,
you may choose to take the beginners
as well as the second course
and get yourself certified as a Kubernetes administrator
or take the beginner's course and the developer's course
to get yourself certified
as a Kubernetes application developer,
which I'd say is the easier of the two
if you were to ask me.
So, if you're ready, let's get started.


=== Logging & Monitoring ===


--- Notes available at KodeKloud Notes ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Application Lifecycle Management ===


--- Core Concepts - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello.
In the first section, we start with the core concepts.
We look at the cluster architecture at a high level
and then look at some of the API primitives,
such as the basic concepts
like Pods, ReplicaSets, Deployments,
followed by services.
If you have attended the beginner's course
or other certification course for application developers,
then you might want to skip some of these topics
or maybe just go through the practice tests alone.
We will now start with the cluster architecture.


=== Cluster Maintenance ===


--- Cluster Architecture ---

We start with a basic overview of the Kubernetes cluster architecture.
We first look at the architecture at a high level, and then we drill down into each of these components.
We see what their roles and responsibilities are and how they are configured.
And finally, you go through a practice test where you look at an existing cluster and are asked to
identify various details with respect to these components in the cluster.
We're going to use an analogy of ships to understand the architecture of Kubernetes.
The purpose of Kubernetes is to host your applications in the form of containers in an automated fashion,
so that you can easily deploy as many instances of your application as required, and easily enable
communication between different services within your application.
So there are many things involved that work together to make this possible.
So let's take a 10,000 foot look at Kubernetes architecture.
Sector.
We have two kinds of shapes in this example cargo ships that does the actual work of carrying containers
across the sea, and control ships that are responsible for monitoring and managing the cargo ships.
The Kubernetes cluster consists of a set of nodes, which may be physical or virtual, on premise or
on cloud, that host applications in the form of containers.
These relate to the cargo ships.
In this analogy, the worker nodes in the cluster are ships that can load containers, but somebody
needs to load the containers on the ships and not just load.
Plan how to load.
Identify the right ships.
Store information about the ships.
Monitor and track the location of containers on the ships.
Manage the whole loading process, etc..
This is done by the control ships that host different offices and departments.
Monitoring equipment's, communication equipments, cranes for moving containers between ships, etc..
the control shifts relate to the master node in the Kubernetes cluster.
The master node is responsible for managing the Kubernetes cluster, storing information regarding the
different nodes, planning which containers goes where, monitoring the nodes and containers on them,
etc..
The master node does all of these using a set of components together known as the control plane components.
We will look at each of these components now.
Now there are many containers being loaded and unloaded from the ships on a daily basis.
And so you need to maintain information about the different ships, what container is on which ship
and what time it was loaded, etc. all of these are stored in a highly available key value store known
as etcd.
Etcd is a database that stores information in a key value format.
We will look more into what etcd cluster actually is, what data is stored in it, and how it stores
the data in one of the upcoming lectures.
When ships arrive, you load containers on them using cranes.
The cranes identify the containers that need to be placed on ships.
It identifies the right ship based on its size, its capacity, the number of containers already on
the ship, and any other conditions such as the destination of the ship, the type of containers it
is allowed to carry, etc. so those are schedulers.
In a Kubernetes cluster, a scheduler identifies the right node to place a container on based on the
containers resource requirements, the worker nodes capacity, or any other policies or constraints
such as taints and tolerations or node affinity rules that are on them.
We will look at these in much more detail with examples and practice tests later in this course.
We have a whole section on scheduling alone.
There are different offices in the dock that are assigned to special tasks or departments.
For example, the operations team takes care of ship handling, traffic control, etc. they deal with
issues related to damages, the routes the different ships take, etc. the cargo team takes care of
containers when containers are damaged or destroyed.
They make sure new containers are made available.
We have these services office that takes care of the IT and communications between different ships.
Similarly, in Kubernetes we have controllers available that take care of different areas.
The node controller takes care of nodes.
They're responsible for onboarding new nodes to the cluster, handling situations where nodes become
unavailable or get get destroyed, and the replication controller ensures that the desired number of
containers are running at all times in a replication group.
So we have seen different components like the different offices, the different ships, the data store,
the cranes.
But how do these communicate with each other?
How does one office reach the other office, and who manages them all at a high level?
The cube API server is the primary management component of Kubernetes.
The cube API server is responsible for orchestrating all operations within the cluster.
It exposes the Kubernetes API, which is used by external users to perform management operations on
the cluster, as well as the various controllers to monitor the state of the cluster and make necessary
changes as required by the worker nodes to communicate with the server.
Now we are working with containers here.
Containers are everywhere, so we need everything to be container compatible.
Our applications are in the form of containers.
The different components that form the entire management system on the master node could be hosted in
the form of containers.
The DNS service networking solution can all be deployed in the form of containers.
So we need this software that can run containers and that's the container runtime engine.
A popular one being Docker.
So we need Docker or its supported equivalent installed on all the nodes in the cluster, including
the master nodes.
If you wish to host the control plane components as containers.
Now it doesn't always have to be Docker.
Kubernetes supports other runtime engines as well, like container D or rocket.
Let us now turn our focus onto the cargo ships.
Now every ship has a captain.
The captain is responsible for managing all activities on these ships.
The captain is responsible for liaising with the master ships, starting with letting the mastership
know that they are interested in joining the group.
Receiving information about the containers to be loaded on the ship and loading the appropriate containers
as required.
Sending reports back to the master about the status of this ship and the status of the containers on
the ship, etc..
Now the captain of the ship is the kubelet in Kubernetes.
A kubelet is an agent that runs on each node in a cluster.
It listens for instructions from the kube API server and deploys or destroys containers on the nodes
as required.
The kube API server periodically fetches status reports from the Kubelet to monitor the status of nodes
and containers on them.
The Kubelet was more of a captain on the ship that manages containers on the ship.
But the applications running on the worker nodes need to be able to communicate with each other.
For example, you might have a web server running in one container on one of the nodes and a database
server running on another container on another node.
How would the web server reach the database server on the other node?
Communication between worker nodes are enabled by another component that runs on the worker node, known
as the kube proxy.
Service.
The kube proxy service ensures that the necessary rules are in place on the worker nodes to allow the
containers running on them to reach each other.
So to summarize, we have master and worker nodes on the master.
We have the etcd cluster which stores information about the cluster.
We have the kube scheduler that is responsible for scheduling applications or containers on nodes.
We have different controllers that take care of different functions like the node controller, replication
controller, etc. we have the kube API server that is responsible for orchestrating all operations within
the cluster.
On the worker node, we have the Kubelet that listens for instructions from the kube API server and
manages containers and the kube proxy that helps in enabling communication between services within the
cluster.
So that's a high level overview of the various components.
We will drill down into each of these in the upcoming lectures.
That's it for now and I will see you in the next lecture.


=== Security ===


--- Docker-vs-ContainerD ---

So you're going to come across Docker and community many times going forward.
So when you read older blogs or documentation pages, you'll see Docker mentioned along with Kubernetes.
And when you read newer blogs you will see container D, and you'll wonder what the difference is between
the two.
And there are a few CLI tools like Ktor, CRI control or Node Control.
And you'll wonder what are these CLI tools and and which one should you be using.
So that's what I'm going to explain in this video.
So let's go back in time to the beginning of the container era.
And in the beginning there was just Docker and there were other tools like rocket.
But Docker's user experience made working with containers super simple, and hence Docker became the
most dominant container tool.
And then came Kubernetes to orchestrate Docker.
So Kubernetes was built to orchestrate Docker specifically in the beginning.
So Docker and Kubernetes were tightly coupled.
And back then Kubernetes only worked with Docker and didn't support any other container solutions.
And then Kubernetes grew in popularity as a container orchestrator.
And now other container runtimes like rocket wanted in Kubernetes.
Users needed it to work with container runtimes that are other than just Docker.
And so Kubernetes introduced an interface called Container Runtime Interface or Cry.
So cry allowed any vendor to work as a container runtime for Kubernetes, as long as they adhere to
the OCI standards.
So OCI stands for Open Container Initiative, and it consists of an image spec and a runtime spec.
Image spec means the specifications on how, uh, an image should be built.
So that's what I defined.
An image spec, defined the specifications on how an image should be built, and the runtime spec defined
the standards on how any container runtime should be developed.
So keeping these standards in mind, anyone can build a container runtime, and that can be used by
anybody to to work with Kubernetes.
So that was the idea.
So rocket and other container runtimes that adhere to the OCI standards were now supported as container
runtimes for Kubernetes via the CRI.
However, uh, Docker wasn't built to support the CRI standards because remember, Docker was built
way before CRI was introduced and Docker still was the dominant container tool used by most.
Kubernetes had to continue to support Docker as well.
And so Kubernetes introduced what is known as uh, Docker shim, which was a hacky, uh, but temporary
way to continue to support Docker outside of the container runtime interface.
So while most other container runtimes worked through the CRI, Docker continued to work without it.
So, um, now you see Docker isn't just a container runtime alone.
Docker consists of multiple tools that are put together for example, the Docker CLI, the Docker API,
the build tools that help in building images.
There was support for volumes of security.
And finally also the container runtime called Runcie and the daemon that managed Runcie.
And that's that was called as container.
So container D is CRI compatible and can work directly with Kubernetes as all other runtimes.
So container D can be used as a runtime on its own separate from Docker.
So now you have container D as a separate runtime and Docker separately.
So Kubernetes continued to maintain support for Docker Engine directly.
However having to maintain the Docker shim was an unnecessary effort and added complications, so it
was decided in version 1.24 release of Kubernetes to remove Dockershim completely, and so support for
Docker was removed.
But you see all the images that were built, uh, before Docker was removed.
So all the Docker images, uh, continue to work because Docker followed the image spec from the OCI
standard.
So all the images built by Docker follow the standard.
So they continue to work with Containerd.
But Docker itself was removed as a supported runtime from Kubernetes.
So that's kind of the whole story.
And now let's look into container D more specifically.
So container D although is part of Docker, is a separate project on its own now and is a member of
CNCF, uh, with the graduated uh status.
So you can now install container D on its own without having to install Docker itself.
So if you don't really need Docker other features, you could ideally just install container uh d alone.
So typically we ran containers uh using the docker run command.
Uh when we, when we had Docker.
And if Docker isn't installed then how do you run containers with just uh, container D.
Now once you install Containerd, it comes with a command line tool called Ktor.
And this tool is solely made for debugging Containerd and is not very user friendly as it only supports
a limited set of features.
And this is what you can see in the documentation pages for for this particular tool.
So for the other than the limited set of features that it provides, any any other way that you want
to interact with Containerd, you'll have to rely on making API calls directly, which is not the the
most user friendly way for us to operate.
So just to give you an idea, this can be the CTR command can be used to perform basic container related
activities such as pull images.
For example, to pull uh, redis image, you would run the CTR images, pull command followed by the
address of the image.
And to run a container, um, we use the CTL run command and specify the image address.
But as I mentioned, this tool is solely made for debugging containerd and is not very user friendly
and not to be used for running or managing containers on on a production environment.
So a better alternative recommended is the nerd control tool or nerd CTL tool.
So the nerd control tool is a command line tool that's very similar to Docker.
So it's like Docker like CLI for container D.
It kind of supports all or most of the options that Docker supports.
And apart from that it has the added benefit that it can give us access to the newest, uh, features
implemented into container D.
So for example, we can work with the encrypted container images or other new feature that will eventually
be implemented into the Docker commands in the future.
It also supports lazy pulling of images, P2P image distribution, image signing and verifying and namespaces
in Kubernetes, which is not available, uh, in Docker.
So the nerd control tool works very similar to docker CLI.
So instead of Docker you would ideally simply have to replace it with node control.
So you can run almost all Docker commands that interact with containers like this.
So some examples are instead of running the docker run command to create a container to run a container,
you could just uh, use the net control run command.
And similarly, uh, let's say you want to use some options for port mappings or exposing ports, uh,
with the dash p option, uh, for the docker run command, you could do the same with node control.
Simply replace Docker with node control.
So so that's pretty easy and straightforward.
So now that we have talked about CTR and the node control tool, uh it's important to talk about another
command line utility known as CRI, CTL or CRI control.
So earlier we talked about the container runtime interface or CRI which is a single interface used to
connect CRI compatible container runtimes the container, the rocket and others.
So, uh, the CRI control is a command line utility that is used to interact with the CRI compatible
container runtime.
So this is kind of an interaction from the Kubernetes perspective.
So this this tool is kind of maintained by uh developed and maintained by the Kubernetes community.
And this is uh, this tool works across all the different container runtimes.
Um, as opposed to earlier You had the CTR and the node control tool that were built by the Containerd
community specifically for Containerd.
This particular tool is from the Kubernetes perspective that works across different container runtimes.
So it must be installed separately and it is used to inspect and debug container runtime.
So this again is not ideally used to create containers unlike Docker or the node control um utility.
This is again a debugging tool.
You can technically create containers with the CRI control utility, but it's not easy.
It's only to be used for some special debugging purposes.
And the remember that it kind of works along with the Kubelet.
So we know that the Kubelet is responsible for ensuring that the specific number of containers or pods
are available on, uh, on node at a time.
So if you kind of go through the CRI control, uh, utility and try and create containers with it,
then eventually Kubelet is going to delete them because the Kubelet is unaware of, uh, some of those
containers or pods that are created outside of its knowledge.
So anything that it sees is going to go and delete it.
So because of those things, remember that the cry control utility is only used for debugging purposes
and getting into containers and all of that.
So let's look at some of the command line examples.
So you simply run the right control crea CTL command for this.
And this can be used to perform basic container related activities such as pull images or list existing
images.
List containers very similar to the docker command where you use the PS command.
So uh, in Docker you will run the PS command.
Here you would run the CRI control PS command and to to run a command inside a container in Docker.
Remember we use the exact command and it's the same here.
Um, along with the same options such as the dash I and dash T.
Uh, and then you specify the container, uh, and then the command that needs to be run to view the
logs.
Again use the CRI control logs command very similar to Docker command.
And uh, one major difference is that the CRI cry control command is also aware of ports, so you can
list ports by running the Control Ports command.
So this wasn't something that Docker um, was aware of.
So while working with Kubernetes in the past, uh, we used Docker commands a lot to troubleshoot containers
and view logs, especially on the worker nodes.
Uh, now you're going to use the cry control command to do so.
So the syntax is a lot similar.
Uh, so it shouldn't be uh, shouldn't be really hard.
So here's a chart that lists the comparison between Docker and uh, the cry control uh, command line
tool.
So as you can see, a lot of commands such as attach exec, uh, images, info, inspect logs, PS stats,
version, etc. work exactly the same way, and some of the commands to create, remove and start and
stop images work similarly too.
So a full list of differences can be found in the the link given below.
So um, since as I mentioned, cry control can be used to connect to any cry compatible runtime, remember
to set the right endpoint if you have multiple container runtimes configured or if you want.
Cry control to interact with the specific runtime.
So for example, if you haven't configured anything by default is going to connect to these sockets
in this particular order.
So it's going to try and connect to Dockershim first and then Containerd and then Cri-o.
And then you have the cri docker d that's, that's kind of the order that it follows.
But if you want to override that and set a specific endpoint, you use the runtime endpoint option with
the CRI control command line.
Or you could use the container runtime endpoint environment variable.
Set the environment variable to the to the right endpoint.
So to summarize, we have the Ktor command line utility that comes with Containerd and works with Containerd,
which is used for debugging purposes only and has a very limited limited set of features.
So ideally you wouldn't be using this at all.
So you can kind of ignore this.
Then we have the nerd control CLI, which is again from the Containerd community.
But this is a docker like CLI for container D, used for general purpose to create containers and supports
the same or more features than docker CLI.
So this is something that I think we'll be using a lot more going forward.
And then we have the um CRI control utility, which is uh, from the Kubernetes community, uh, mainly
used to interact with CRI compatible runtimes.
So it's not just for container D, this can be used for all CRI supported runtimes.
Again this is mainly for to be used for debugging purposes.
So if you look at the comparisons here you can see that CTR and CRI control are used mainly for debugging
purposes, whereas the nerve control is used for general purpose.
The CTR and node control uh are from the container the community and works with container D, whereas
CRI control is from the Kubernetes community and works across all CRI compatible runtimes.
So our labs originally had Docker installed on all the nodes.
So we used the Docker commands to troubleshoot.
But now it's all container d.
So remember to use the um the CRI control command instead to troubleshoot.
Well that's all for now.
Thank you for listening.


=== Storage ===


--- A note on Docker deprecation ---

Every time we mention about Docker in this course, one of the common questions we get is why are we
still talking about Docker if it's deprecated?
And I realized that there's some confusion about the Docker deprecation among students, and I just
wanted to take a minute to try and help clear that confusion.
So as we discussed before, Docker was the original and only supported container runtime for Kubernetes,
and to make Kubernetes open to other runtimes, we had the container runtime interface introduced.
So Docker consisted of multiple tools put together like Docker CLI, the API, the build tools that
help build images.
There was support for volumes, auth, security and finally also the container runtime called Runc and
the daemon that managed the runtime called the container.
So container D is the CRI compatible and can.
And that's the component that can work directly with Kubernetes.
And as all of the other runtimes.
So container D can be used as runtime on its own separate from Docker.
So once this change was made, Kubernetes no longer needed.
The other tools that Docker supported like Docker CLI or the API, or build volumes or etc. as they
were all taken care of of by Kubernetes itself.
And so Kubernetes was able to deprecate the support for Docker.
Now that doesn't mean that Docker is entirely gone.
So Docker is still the most popular container solution out there and used by many in their day to day
development and build processes.
It's just that Kubernetes no longer require Docker as the runtime now.
So going forward in this course, every time we talk about containers, we use Docker as an example.
And that's absolutely fine because sometimes we learn how things work in containers first before looking
at how it is done in container orchestration world of Kubernetes.
So and in those cases it is okay to use Docker as an example.
And if you don't happen to have Docker on your machine or are only using container, then you can still
work with the same examples by replacing the docker command with the node control command, or most
of the time.
So I just wanted to throw that out there before we proceed.


=== Networking ===


--- ETCD For Beginners ---

This is a quick introduction to etcd for beginners.
If you already know etcd.
Feel free to skip and head over to the next video where we discuss etcd in Kubernetes.
In this video, we discuss what etcd is, what a key value store is, and how is it different from traditional
databases, and how to quickly get started with etcd and how to use the client tool to operate etcd?
Later in this course, we will cover high availability, where we discuss what it means to be a distributed
system, how etcd works in a cluster mode, what raft protocol is, and what are the best practices
around the number of nodes in a cluster.
So what is etcd?
It is a distributed, reliable key value store that is simple, secure and fast.
So let's break it up.
So what is a key value store?
Let's start with traditional databases.
Traditionally databases have been in a tabular format.
You must have heard about SQL or relational databases.
They store data in the form of rows and columns.
For example, here is a table that stores information regarding few individuals.
The row represents each person and the column represents the type of information being stored.
Now say we want to add additional details about these individuals.
Say for example salary.
So we add an additional column.
Doing so impacts the entire table and all of the individuals in them.
We then add salary details to this column.
However not all of them are working, so these cells remain empty.
We are then required to store grade information.
So we add a new column and update the students with their respective grades.
Again, only students have grades, so the corresponding fields for adults are empty.
Every time a new information needs to be added, the entire table is affected and leads to a lot of
empty cells.
So relational databases that we just discussed have a strict schema, can perform complex queries using
SQL delivers good performance however, is very rigid in terms of flexibility and is best for structured
data.
A document store.
Stores information in the form of documents, so each individual gets a document, and all information
about that individual is stored within that file.
These files can be in any format or structure, and changes to one file does not affect the others.
The working individuals can have their files with salary fields, and the students can have their pages
with grades only.
You can add additional details to any of these documents without having to update other similar documents.
Document stores typically store data in a JSON format, so comparing relational databases to document
store document stores typically don't need a schema defined can be limiting in terms of performing complex
queries by joining different tables.
Delivers good performance, is very flexible thanks to the document structure, and is best suited for
semi-structured data, as we call it now.
A third type of storage option is what we call a key value store.
It's super simple.
Stores a value against a key.
So the key is name.
The value is John.
Another key is location.
Value is New York, key is age.
Value is 45.
Key is salary.
Value is 5000.
And we can also store a bit more complex data.
So the key could be user John Doe semicolon John Doe.
So the key could be user semicolon John Doe.
And the value could be a set of properties or an entire JSON document itself.
So how does a key value store compare to other storage models?
Key value store does not necessarily have a schema, does not support complex queries.
But performance is super fast and is very flexible that you can store just about anything without breaking
anything else or worrying about data structures, and so it's best suited for simple fast lookup.
Etcd is one such key value store that's distributed and reliable.
We'll talk more about what distributed and reliable means later in this course.
So how do you install and get started with etcd?
We download the binary, extract it and run it.
Well, you download the relevant binary for your operating system from GitHub releases page.
We extract it and run the etcd executable.
As simple as that.
Now when you run etcd, it starts a service that listens on port 2379 by default.
So that's your server.
Note that this is the simplest form of running etcd server.
You would ideally run it as a system service or as a pod on a Kubernetes cluster.
You can then attach any clients to the etcd service to store and retrieve information.
A default client that comes with etcd is etcd control client or etcd.
The etcd cuddle is a command line client for etcd.
You can use it to store and retrieve key value pairs to store a key and value pair.
Run the etcd cuddle.
Put key one command followed by the value value one.
This creates an entry in the database with the information to retrieve the stored data.
Run the get key command to view more options.
Run the etcd cuddle command without any arguments.
Now you might come across different versions of commands while exploring etcd and related articles online.
So it's important to understand the history of etcd releases.
So you know what changed when the first version of etcd version 0.1 was released in August 2013.
The official stable version, version 2.0, was released in February 2015.
This is when the raft consensus algorithm was redesigned and supported more than 1000 writes per second.
We'll talk more about that later.
In January 2017, etcd released version three with a lot more optimizations and performance improvements.
Now, what's important to note is the change between version two and three.
The API versions change so the etcd command changed as well.
The older API, which used etcd cuddle set and etcd cuddle get commands instead of etcd cuddle put and
get commands.
In V2, we used uh to delete values.
In v3 we use delete and there was no support for transactions in v2, but v3 does support transactions
later on.
In November 2018, etcd became a CNCF incubator project, meaning the Cloud Native Computing Foundation
took ownership of governing and supporting the project, and more versions were released through to
November 2020, when etcd became a CNCF graduated project.
In June 2021, version 3.5 was released.
So the point I'm trying to make is that you might see blogs documentation online regarding the older
API, which used etcd cuddle set and get commands instead of the etcd cuddle put and get commands,
so don't be alarmed.
That's because they are on older version.
You can see the version by running the etcd cuddle version command, and if you look at the API version,
you'll see whether you're on version 2 or 3.
The newer version uses put and get and delete commands instead of the set, get and rm commands.


=== Design and Install a Kubernetes Cluster ===


--- ETCD in Kubernetes ---

In the previous lecture, we discussed the basics of etcd.
In this lecture we will talk about etcd role in Kubernetes.
The etcd data store stores information regarding the cluster such as the nodes, pods, configs, secrets,
accounts, roles, role bindings and others.
Every information you see when you run the kubectl get command is from etcd server.
Every change you make to your cluster, such as adding additional nodes, deploying pods, or replica
sets are updated in etcd server only once it is updated in etcd server.
Is the change considered to be complete?
Depending on how you set up your cluster, etcd is deployed differently.
Throughout this section, we discuss about two types of Kubernetes deployments one deployed from scratch
and other using the Kube ADM tool.
The practice test environments are deployed using the cube ADM tool.
And later in this course, when we set up a cluster, we set it up from scratch.
So it's good to know the difference between the two methods.
If you set up your cluster from scratch, then you deploy etcd by downloading the etcd binaries yourself,
installing the binaries, and configuring etcd as a service in your master node yourself.
There are many options passed into the service.
A number of them relate to certificates.
We will learn more about these certificates, how to create them and how to configure them later in
this course.
We have a whole section on TLS certificates.
The others are about configuring etcd as a cluster.
We will look at those options when we set up high availability in Kubernetes.
The only option to note for now is the advertised client URL.
This is the address on which etcd listens.
It happens to be on the IP of the server and on port 2379, which is the default port on which etcd
listens.
This is the URL that should be configured on the kube API server when it tries to reach the etcd server.
If you set up your cluster using kube adm, then kube adm deploys the etcd server for you as a pod in
the kube system namespace.
You can explore the etcd database using the etcd control utility within this pod.
To list all keys stored by Kubernetes, run the etcd control.
Get command like this.
Kubernetes stores data in a specific directory structure.
The root directory is a registry, and under that you have the various Kubernetes constructs such as
minions or nodes, pods, replica sets, deployments, etc. in a high availability environment, you
will have multiple master nodes in your cluster.
Then you will have multiple etcd instances spread across the master nodes.
In that case, make sure that the etcd instances know about each other by setting the right parameter
in etcd service configuration.
The initial cluster option is where you must specify the different instances of etcd service.
We talk about high availability in much more detail later in this course, but I thought it's worthwhile
to point it out here.
Well, that's it for this lecture and I will see you in the next.


=== Install "Kubernetes the kubeadm way" ===


--- ETCD - Commands (Optional) ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== (2025 Updates)Helm Basics ===


--- Kube-API Server ---

In this lecture we will talk about the cube API server in Kubernetes.
Earlier we discussed that the cube API server is the primary management component in Kubernetes.
When you run a cube control command, the cube control utility is in fact reaching to the cube API server.
The cube API server first authenticates the request and validates it.
It then retrieves the data from the etcd cluster and responds back with the requested information.
You don't really need to use the cube control command line instead.
You could also invoke the APIs directly by sending a Post request like this.
Let's look at an example of creating a pod.
When you do that, as before, the request is authenticated first and then validated.
In this case, the API server creates a Pod object without assigning it to a node.
Updates the information in the etcd server.
Updates the user that the pod has been created.
The scheduler continuously monitors the API server and realizes that there is a new pod with no node
assigned.
The scheduler identifies the right node to place the new pod part on and communicates that back to the
cube API server.
The API server then updates the information in the etcd cluster.
The API server then passes that information to the Kubelet in the appropriate worker node.
The Kubelet then creates the pod on the node and instructs the container runtime engine to deploy the
application image.
Once done, the Kubelet updates the status back to the API server, and the API server then updates
the data back in the etcd cluster.
A similar pattern is followed every time a change is requested.
The kube API server is at the center of all the different tasks that needs to be performed to make a
change in the cluster.
To summarize, the kube API server is responsible for authenticating and validating requests, retrieving
and updating data in the etcd data store.
In fact, kube API server is the only component that interacts directly with the etcd data store.
The other components, such as the scheduler, kube, controller, manager, and Kubelet uses the API
server to perform updates in the cluster in their respective areas.
If you bootstrapped your cluster using kube admin tool, Then you don't need to know this, but if you
are setting up the hard way, then the cube API server is available as a binary in the Kubernetes release
page.
Download it and configure it to run as a service on your Kubernetes master node.
The cube API server is run with a lot of parameters, as you can see here.
Throughout this section, we're going to take a peek at how to install and configure these individual
components of the Kubernetes architecture.
You don't have to understand all of the options right now, but I think having a high level understanding
on some of these now will make it easier later when we configure the whole cluster and all of its components
from scratch.
The Kubernetes architecture consists of a lot of different components working with each other, talking
to each other in many different ways.
So they all need to know where the other components are.
There are different modes of authentication, authorization, encryption, and security, and that's
why you have so many options.
When we go through the relevant section in the course, we will pull up this file and look at the relevant
options.
For now, we will look at a few important ones.
A lot of them are certificates that are used to secure the connectivity between different components.
We look at these certificates in more detail when we go through the SSL TLS certificates lecture later
in this course.
There is a whole section just for it, so we will get rid of them for now.
But just remember all of the various components we are going to look at in this section will have certificates
associated with them.
The option etcd servers is where you specify the location of the etcd servers.
This is how the kube API server connects to the etcd servers.
So how do you view the kube API server options in an existing cluster?
It depends on how you set up your cluster.
If you set it up with a kube admin tool, the kube admin deploys the kube API server as a pod in the
kube system namespace on the master node.
You can see the options within the pod definition file located at Etsy Kubernetes manifest folder in
a non kube admin setup.
You can inspect the options by viewing the kube API server service located at Etsy systemd system Kube
apiserver dot service.
You can also see the running process and the effective options by listing the process on the master
node and searching for kube API server.
Well, that's it for this lecture.


=== (2025 Updates)Kustomize Basics ===


--- Kube Controller Manager ---

In this lecture we will talk about Kube Controller Manager.
As we discussed earlier, the Kube controller manager manages various controllers in Kubernetes.
A controller is like an office or department within the master ship that have their own set of responsibilities,
such as an office for the ships would be responsible for monitoring and taking necessary actions about
the ships.
Whenever a new ship arrives, or when a ship leaves or gets destroyed, another office could be one
that manages the containers on the ships.
They take care of containers that are damaged or fall off ships.
So these offices are, number one, continuously on the lookout for the status of the ships, and two,
takes necessary actions to remediate the situation.
In the Kubernetes terms, a controller is a process that continuously monitors the state of various
components within the system, and works towards bringing the whole system to the desired functioning
state.
For example, the node controller is responsible for monitoring the status of the notes and taking necessary
actions to keep the applications running.
It does that through the cube API server.
The node controller checks the status of the nodes every five seconds.
That way the node controller can monitor the health of the nodes.
If it stops receiving heartbeat from a node, the node is marked as unreachable, but it waits for 40s
before marking it unreachable.
After a node is marked unreachable, it gives it five minutes to come back up.
If it doesn't, it removes the pods assigned to that node and provisions them on the healthy ones.
If the pods are part of a replica set, the next controller is the replication controller.
It is responsible for monitoring the status of replica sets, and ensuring that the desired number of
pods are available at all times within the set.
If a pod dies, it creates another one.
Now those were just two examples of controllers.
There are many more such controllers available within Kubernetes.
Whatever concepts we have seen so far in Kubernetes, such as deployments, services, namespaces,
or persistent volumes and whatever intelligence is built into these constructs, it is implemented through
these various controllers.
As you can imagine, this is kind of the brain behind a lot of things in Kubernetes.
Now, how do you see these controllers and where are they located in your cluster?
They are all packaged into a single process known as the Kubernetes Controller manager.
When you install the Kubernetes controller manager, the different controllers get installed as well.
So how do you install and view the Kubernetes Controller manager?
Download the Kube controller manager from Kubernetes release page.
Extract it and run it as a service.
When you run it, as you can see, there are a list of options provided.
This is where you provide additional options to customize your controller.
Remember some of the default settings for node controller we discussed earlier, such as the node monitor
period, the grace period, and the eviction timeout.
These go in here as options.
There is an additional option called controllers that you can use to specify which controllers to enable.
By default, all of them are enabled, but you can choose to enable a select few.
So in case any of your controllers don't seem to work or exist, this would be a good starting point
to look at.
So how do you view the Kube Controller Manager server options?
Again, it depends on how you set up your cluster.
If you set it up with the kube admin tool, kube admin deploys the kube controller manager as a pod
in the kube system namespace on the master node.
You can see the options within the pod definition file located at Etsy Kubernetes manifest folder in
a non kube admin setup.
You can inspect the options by viewing the Kube Controller Manager service located at the services directory.
You can also see the running process and the effective options by listing the process on the master
node and searching for Kube Controller manager.
Well, that's it for this lecture and I will see you in the next.


=== Troubleshooting ===


--- Kube Scheduler ---

In this lecture we will talk about kube scheduler.
Earlier we discussed that the Kubernetes Scheduler is responsible for scheduling pods and nodes.
Now don't let the graphic mislead you.
Remember the scheduler is only responsible for deciding which pod goes on which node.
It doesn't actually place the pod on the nodes.
That's the job of the kubelet.
The Kubelet or the captain on the ship is who creates the pod on the ships.
The scheduler only decides which pod goes where.
Let's look at how the scheduler does that in a bit more detail.
First of all, why do you need scheduler when there are many ships and many containers?
You want to make sure that the right container ends up on the right ship.
For example, there could be different sizes of ships and containers.
You want to make sure the ship has sufficient capacity to accommodate those containers.
Different ships may be going to different destinations.
You want to make sure your containers are placed on the right ships, so they end up in the right destination.
In Kubernetes, the scheduler decides which nodes the pods are placed on.
Depending on certain criteria, you may have pods with different resource requirements.
You can have nodes in the cluster dedicated to certain applications.
So how does the scheduler assign these pods?
The scheduler looks at each pod and tries to find the best node for it.
For example, let's take one of these pods, the big blue one.
It has a set of CPU and memory requirements.
The scheduler goes through two phases to identify the best node for the pod.
In the first phase, the scheduler tries to filter out the nodes that do not fit the profile for this
pod.
For example, the nodes that do not have sufficient CPU and memory resources requested by the pod.
So the first two nodes are filtered out.
So we are now left with the two nodes on which the pod can be placed.
Now how does the scheduler pick one from the two?
The scheduler ranks the nodes to identify the best fit for the pod.
It uses a priority function to assign a score to the nodes on a scale of 0 to 10.
For example, the scheduler calculates the amount of resources that would be free on the nodes after
placing the pod on them.
In this case, the one on the right would have six CPUs free if the pod was placed on it, which is
four more than the other one.
So it gets a better rank.
And so it wins.
So that's how a scheduler works at a high level.
And of course these can be customized and you can write your own scheduler as well.
There are many more topics to look at such as resource requirements, limits taints and tolerations.
Node selectors, affinity rules, etc. which is why we have an entire section dedicated to scheduling
coming up in this course, where we will discuss each of these in much more detail.
For now, we will continue to focus on the scheduler as a process at a high level.
So how do you install the scheduler?
Download the kube scheduler binary from the Kubernetes release page, extract it and run it as a service.
When you run it as a service, you specify the scheduler configuration file.
So how do you view the kube scheduler server options?
Again, if you set it up with the kube adm tool, the kube adm tool deploys the kube scheduler as a
pod in the kube system namespace on the master node.
You can see the options within the pod definition file located at Kubernetes manifest folder.
You can also see the running process and the effective options by listing the process on the master
node and searching for kube scheduler.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
I will see you in the next.


=== Other Topics ===


--- Kubelet ---

In this lecture we will look at cubelet.
Earlier we discussed that the Cubelet is like the captain of the ship.
They lead all activities on a ship.
They are the ones responsible for doing all the paperwork necessary to become part of the cluster.
They are the sole point of contact from the master ship.
They load or unload containers on the ship as instructed by the scheduler on the master.
They also send back reports at regular intervals on the status of the ship and the containers on them.
The cubelet in the Kubernetes worker node registers the node with the Kubernetes cluster.
When it receives instructions to load a container or a pod on the node, it requests the container runtime
engine, which may be Docker, to pull the required image and run an instance.
The Cubelet then continues to monitor the state of the pod and containers in it, and reports to the
kube API server on a timely basis.
So how do you install the cubelet?
If you use the kube admin tool to deploy your cluster, it does not automatically deploy the Cubelet.
Now that's the difference from the other components.
You must always manually install the Kubelet on your worker nodes.
Download the installer, extract it and run it as a service.
You can view the running cubelet process and the effective options by listing the process on the worker
node and searching for Cubelet.
We will look more into Cubelets, how to configure Cubelets, generate certificates, and finally how
to TLS bootstrap Cubelets later in this course.
That's it for now.
I will see you in the next lecture.


=== Lightning Labs ===


--- Kube Proxy ---

In this lecture we will talk about kube proxy within a Kubernetes cluster.
Every pod can reach every other pod.
This is accomplished by deploying a pod networking solution to the cluster.
A pod network is an internal virtual network that spans across all the nodes in the cluster, to which
all the pods connect to.
Through this network, they're able to communicate with each other.
There are many solutions available for deploying such a network.
In this case, I have a web application deployed on the first node and a database application deployed
on the second.
The web app can reach the database simply by using the IP of the pod, but there is no guarantee that
the IP of the database pod will always remain the same.
If you've gone through the lecture on services as discussed in the beginner's course, you must know
that a better way for the web application to access the database is using a service.
So we create a service to expose the database application across the cluster.
The web application can now access the database using the name of the service DB.
The service also gets an IP address assigned to it whenever a pod tries to reach the surface using its
IP or name, it forwards the traffic to the backend pod.
In this case, the database.
But what is this service and how does it get an IP?
Does the service join the same pod network?
The service cannot join the pod network because the service is not an actual thing.
It is not a container like pods, so it doesn't have any interfaces or an actively listening process.
It is a virtual component that only lives in the Kubernetes memory.
But then we also said that the service should be accessible across the cluster from any nodes.
So how is that achieved?
That's where kube proxy comes in.
Kube proxy is a process that runs on each node in the Kubernetes cluster.
Its job is to look for new services.
And every time a new service is created, it creates the appropriate rules on each node to forward traffic
to those services to the backend pods.
One way it does this is using iptables rules.
In this case, it creates an iptables rule on each node in the cluster to forward traffic heading to
the IP of the service, which is 10.96.0.1.
To the IP of the actual port, which is 10.32.0.15.
So that's how kube proxy configures a service.
We discussed a lot more about networking and services and kube proxy and pod networking later in this
course.
Again we have a large section just for networking.
This is a high level overview for now.
We will now see how to install kube proxy.
Download the kube proxy binary from the Kubernetes release page.
Extract it and run it as a service.
The kube adm tool deploys kube proxy as pods on each node.
In fact, it is deployed as a daemonset, so a single pod is always deployed on each node in the cluster.
Well, if you don't know about Daemonset yet, don't worry.
We have a lecture on that coming up in this course.
We have now covered a high level overview of the Kubernetes components, including control plane and
node level components like kube proxy.
As mentioned, we will look at some of these in much more detail at various sections in this course.
Well that's it for this lecture.
I will see you in the next section.


=== Mock Exams ===


--- Pods ---

Before we head into understanding pods, we would like to assume that the following have been set up
already.
At this point, we assume that the application is already developed and built into Docker images, and
it is available on Docker repository like Docker Hub, so Kubernetes can pull it down.
We also assume that the Kubernetes cluster has already been set up and is working.
This could be a single node setup or a multi node setup.
Doesn't matter.
All the services need to be in a running state, as we discussed before with Kubernetes.
Our ultimate aim is to deploy our application in the form of containers on a set of machines that are
configured as worker nodes in a cluster.
However, Kubernetes does not deploy containers directly on the worker nodes.
The containers are encapsulated into a Kubernetes object known as pods.
A pod is a single instance of an application.
A pod is the smallest object that you can create in Kubernetes.
Here we see the simplest of simplest cases, where you have a single node Kubernetes cluster with a
single instance of your application running in a single Docker container encapsulated in a pod.
What if the number of users accessing your application increase and you need to scale your application?
You need to add additional instances of your web application to share the load.
Now where would you spin up additional instances?
Do we bring up new container instances within the same pod?
No.
We create new pod altogether with a new instance of the same application.
As you can see, we now have two instances of our web application running on two separate paths on the
same Kubernetes system or node.
What if the user base further increases and your current node has no sufficient capacity?
Well, then you can always deploy additional pods on a new node in the cluster.
You will have a new node added to the cluster to expand the cluster's physical capacity.
So what I'm trying to illustrate in this slide is that pods usually have a 1 to 1 relationship, with
containers running your application.
To scale up, you create new pods, and to scale down you delete existing pods.
You do not add additional containers to an existing pod to scale your application.
Also, if you're wondering how we implement all of this and how we achieve load balancing between containers,
etc., we will get into all of that in a later lecture.
For now, we are only trying to understand the basic concepts.
We just said that pods usually have a 1 to 1 relationship with the containers.
But are we restricted to having a single container in a single pod?
No.
A single pod can have multiple containers, except for the fact that they're usually not multiple containers
of the same kind.
As we discussed in the previous slide, if our intention was to scale our application, then we would
need to create additional pods.
But sometimes you might have a scenario where you have a helper container that might be doing some kind
of supporting task for our web application, such as processing a user entered data, processing a file
uploaded by the user, etc. and you want these helper containers to live alongside your application
container.
In that case, you can have both of these containers part of the same pod, so that when a new application
container is created.
The helper is also created and when it dies, the helper also dies since they are part of the same pod.
The two containers can also communicate with each other directly by referring to each other as localhost,
since they share the same network space.
Plus, they can easily share the same storage space as well.
If you still have doubts in this topic, I would understand if you did, because I did.
The first time I learned these concepts, we could take another shot at understanding pods from a different
angle.
Let's for a moment keep Kubernetes out of our discussion and talk about simple Docker containers.
Let's assume we were developing a process or a script to deploy our application on a Docker host.
Then we would first simply deploy our application using a simple Docker run Python app command.
And the application runs fine and our users are able to access it.
When the load increases, we deploy more instances of our application by running the Docker run commands
many more times.
This works fine and we're all happy.
Now, sometime in the future, our application is further developed, undergoes architectural changes,
and grows and gets complex.
We now have a new helper container that helps our web application by processing or fetching data from
elsewhere.
These helper containers maintain a 1 to 1 relationship with our application container, and thus needs
to communicate with the application containers directly and access data from those containers.
For this, we need to maintain a map of what app and helper containers are connected to each other.
We would need to establish network connectivity between these containers ourselves using links and custom
networks.
We would need to create sharable volumes and share it among the containers.
We would need to maintain a map of that as well.
And most importantly, we would need to monitor the state of the application container and when it dies,
manually kill the helper container as well, as it's no longer required.
When a new container is deployed, we would need to deploy the new helper container as well with pods.
Kubernetes does all of this for us automatically.
We just need to define what containers a pod consists of, and the containers in a pod by default will
have access to the same storage, the same network namespace, and same fate as in they will be created
together and destroyed together.
Even if our application didn't happen to be so complex and we could live with a single container, Kubernetes
still requires you to create pods, but this is good in the long run as your application is now equipped
for architectural changes and scale in the future.
However, also note that Multi-container pod are a rare use case, and we're going to stick to single
containers per pod in this course.
Let us now look at how to deploy pods.
Earlier we learned about the Kube control run command.
What this command really does is it deploys a Docker container by creating a pod.
So it first creates a pod automatically and deploys an instance of the nginx docker image.
But where does it get the application image from?
For that you need to specify the image name using the image parameter.
The application image.
In this case the nginx image is downloaded from the Docker Hub repository.
Docker hub, as we discussed, is a public repository where Docker images of various applications are
stored.
You could configure Kubernetes to pull the image from the public Docker hub or a private repository
within the The organization.
Now that we have a pod created, how do we see the list of pods available?
The Kube control get pods command helps us see the list of pods in our cluster.
In this case, we see the pod is in a container creating state and soon changes to a running state when
it is actually running.
Also, remember that we haven't really talked about the concepts on how a user can access the nginx
web server, and so in the current state, we haven't made the web server accessible to external users.
You can access it internally from the node.
But for now we will just see how to deploy a pod.
And later in a later lecture, once we learn about networking and services, we will get to know how
to make this service accessible to end users.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to a demo and I will see you in the next one.


=== Bonus Section ===


--- Pods with YAML ---

In this lecture we will talk about creating a pod using a YAML based configuration file.
In the previous lecture we learned about YAML files in general.
Now we will learn how to develop YAML files specifically for Kubernetes.
Kubernetes uses YAML files as inputs for the creation of objects such as pods, replicas, deployments,
services, etc. all of these follow a similar structure.
A Kubernetes definition file always contains four top level fields the API version, kind, metadata,
and spec.
These are the top level or root level properties.
These are also required fields, so you must have them in your configuration file.
Let us look at each one of them.
The first one is the API version.
This is the version of the Kubernetes API we are using to create the object, depending on what we are
trying to create.
We must use the right API version for now since we are working on pods.
We will set the API version as v1.
Few other possible values for this field are apps v1, beta, extensions v1, beta, etc. we will see
what these are for later in this course.
Next is the kind.
The kind refers to the type of object we are trying to create, which in this case happens to be a pod.
So we will set it as pod.
Some other possible values here could be replica set or deployment or service, which is what you see
in the kind field in the table on the right.
The next is metadata.
The metadata is data about the object like its name, labels, etc. as you can see, unlike the first
two where you have specified a string value, this is in the form of a dictionary.
So everything under metadata is intended to the right a little bit.
And so names and labels are children of metadata.
The number of spaces before the two properties, name and labels doesn't matter, but they should be
the same as they are siblings.
In this case, labels has more spaces on the left than name, and so it is now a child of the name property
instead of a sibling, which is incorrect.
Also, the two properties must have more spaces than its parent, which is metadata, so that it's intended
to the right a little bit.
In this case, all three of them have the same number of spaces before them, and so they are all siblings,
which is not correct under metadata.
The name is a string value.
So you can name your pod my app pod and the labels is a dictionary.
So labels is a dictionary within the metadata dictionary.
And it can have any key and value pairs as you wish.
For now I have added a label app with the value My app.
Similarly, you could add other labels as you see fit, which will help you identify these objects at
a later point in time.
Say, for example, there are hundreds of pods running a front end application and hundreds of pods
running a back end application or a database.
It will be difficult for you to group these pods once they are deployed.
If you label them now as front end, back end, or database, you will be able to filter the pods based
on this label at a later point in time.
It's important to note that under metadata, you can only specify name or labels or anything else that
Kubernetes expects to be under metadata.
You cannot add any other property as you wish under this.
However, under labels you can have any kind of key or value pairs as you see fit.
So it's important to understand what each of these parameters expect.
So far, we have only mentioned the type and name of the object we need to create, which happens to
be a pod with a name Myapp pod, but we haven't really specified the Divide the container or image we
need in the pod.
The last section in the configuration file is the specification section, which is written as spec.
Depending on the object we are going to create.
This is where we would provide additional information to Kubernetes pertaining to that object.
This is going to be different for different objects.
So it's important to understand or refer to the documentation section to get the right format for each.
Since we are only creating a pod with a single container in it, it is easy.
Spec is a dictionary, so add a property under it called containers.
Containers is a list or an array.
The reason this property is a list is because the pods can have multiple containers within them, as
we learned in the lecture earlier.
In this case though, we will only add a single item in the list since we plan to have only a single
container in the pod.
The dash right before the name indicates that this is the first item in the list.
The item in the list is a dictionary, so add a name and image property.
The value for image is nginx, which is the name of the Docker image in the Docker repository.
Once the file is created, run the command kubectl create dash f followed by the file name, which is
pod definition YAML and Kubernetes creates the pod.
So to summarize, remember the four top level properties API version kind, metadata and spec.
Then start by adding values to those depending on the object you are going to create.
Once we create the pod, how do you see it?
Use the kubectl get pods command to see a list of pods available.
In this case it's just one.
To see detailed information about the pod, run the kubectl describe pod command.
This will tell you information about the pod when it was created, what labels are assigned to it,
what Docker containers are part of it, and the events associated with that pod.

--- Demo - Pods with YAML ---

In this demo, we're going to create a pod again.
But this time, instead of making use of the cube cuddle run command, we are going to create it using
a YAML definition file.
So our goal is to create a YAML file with the pod specifications in it.
Now there are many ways to do it.
You could just create one in any text editor.
So if you're on windows you could just use notepad.
Or if you're on Linux as I am, just use a native editor like VI or vim, an editor with support for
YAML language would be very helpful, um, in getting the syntax right.
So instead of notepad, it's a tool like Notepad Plus plus in Windows or vim in Linux would be better.
Now I'll talk more about tips and tricks and other tools and ideas that can help with this.
Um, more in the upcoming lectures.
For now, let's take, uh, with the very basic, uh, form of creating a YAML file using VI editor
on my Linux system.
So here I am on my Linux terminal, and I'm going to make use of vim text based editor to create this
Pod definition file.
So the name of the file I'm going to call as pod YAML.
And as seen in the lecture we will start off with the four, uh root level elements or the root level
properties that we, that we saw which are API version kind metadata and spec.
So we know that the value of for API version for a pod is V1.
Uh, the kind is uh, pod with a capital P, so it is case sensitive.
So, uh, that's important.
And metadata is a dictionary and it can have values where we define the name of the pod.
So I'm going to use name as nginx.
And we can have uh additional uh labels that we can specify under it.
So labels again is also a dictionary.
And it can have as many labels as you want under it.
So we can specify a label which is a key value pair, such as a app and nginx.
And we can also add more labels like tier uh and set it to front end.
Anything that can help us group this particular pod.
Next um, we have to define the spec.
So spec is also a dictionary and it has an object called containers.
So before we move on to that, uh, we have to make sure that we get the indentation right.
For example, the app and tier are children of the labels property.
So it has to be in the same, uh, kind of vertical line here.
And similarly under metadata you have name and labels which are the children of metadata.
So they both have to be, uh, within the same vertical line.
Uh, so you have to make sure that the spacing is correct.
Typically it would be two spaces or a tab, but it is recommended not to use tabs.
So always stick to two spaces and and stick to that throughout.
So the next thing that we're going to configure is the container.
So a container is a list of objects.
Now we first give it a name.
Note that this is the name of the container within the pod.
And there could be multiple containers.
And each can have a different name.
So one container could be named app and another container could be named uh helper.
Any name that makes sense to you, we're going to use the same name as that of the container image.
So we will just name it nginx.
And the second object that we're going to add here is the image name, which is the Docker Hub image
name of the container that we're going to create.
So the image name is um again nginx.
Um if you're using other registries than Docker Hub then make sure to specify the full path, um to
that image repository here.
Now remember that we can add Additional containers, the pod as well.
So if you have to do that and we have to declare the secondary element, uh, to the list, which would
be the second object in the list.
So here I can, for example, add a BusyBox container using the BusyBox image.
And that would be the second element of the array.
So in this case we're going to stick to one single container.
So I'm going to just delete that.
And I'm now going to hit escape colon wq to save this file.
And we will just use the Cat command to make sure that the file was created with the expected contents.
So make sure the format is correct.
So the name and labels are children of metadata.
And you can see that they are on the same, uh, kind of vertical line.
And similarly labels have two children which are the two labels app and tier and spec has a list.
Um, and we are defining it as a list with a hyphen followed by the objects.
So we can make use of the kubectl create command or the kubectl apply command.
So the create and apply command kind of works the same.
Um if you're creating a new object right.
You can either use create or you can use apply.
Um it doesn't matter.
Um, and we pass in the uh, file name using the dash f option.
And here we can see that the pod has been created.
So let's check the status real quick.
And you can see that it's in container creating state.
And then when we check again we see that it's in a running state.
And as before if you want to get more details about the pod, you can always run the kubectl describe
command and specify the the name of the pod.
And you should get a much more in-depth information about the pod.
Okay, so that's it for this demo.
In the next section we will learn some tips and tricks of developing YAML files.
Um, easily using IDE's.

--- Practice Test Introduction ---

Before you head into a practice test which follows this video, I wanted to spend a few minutes on walking
you through the practice test portal.
Following this lecture, you'll be taken to the labs.
Click the start button to load the lab.
You must be accessing the practice test on a laptop or a desktop system, as you will require a keyboard
to work hands on.
Allow some time for the labs to load.
It usually loads in less than 30s and in rare scenarios it might take a few minutes.
So I request you to be patient when it takes a long time.
Now, once the lab is loaded, you will find the quiz portal on the left and a terminal on the right.
The terminal on the right is a live terminal for you to work on.
This could be a Linux terminal if you are learning Linux shell scripting or git, and this could be
a Docker host if you are learning Docker or the Kubernetes control plane.
If you're learning Kubernetes, you can run commands here and interact with the system and perform your
tasks.
There are two parts to the labs.
One is this terminal on the right where you'll be working, and you'll run commands to view and configure
the Kubernetes cluster.
The second is the quiz portal on the left.
Each topic covered in the lecture has a practice test associated with it that consists anywhere from
5 to 15 questions.
You can see the total number of questions at the top and as and when you progress through them, it
will be marked accordingly.
The questions are of different kind.
Sometimes you're asked to look for information in the environment and select the right answer.
At other times, you will perform changes to the environment, such as deploy a set of pods or services
and ask you to look for information within them.
Or, you may be asked to perform a configuration task using a given spec.
We then test your work to ensure that you've completed it successfully.
Sometimes you're given a set of Kubernetes definition files and asked to use them to create configurations.
Use the VI editor to edit these files.
Remember, in the certification test, you must use one of the editors that come within the provided
exam environment.
So you must practice working with VI editors.
We also have some scenario based multiple choice questions, so you won't have these in the actual certification
exam.
We added these to test your knowledge and ensure that you're learning.
When you're given a spec, remember to create a configuration that matches it exactly.
You can skip any question by clicking on this button at the top, but remember you cannot come back
as a questions follow a particular flow.
At times, you can access the application that you deploy by clicking on the web portal link given above
your terminal, but this is subject to your application.
Having a web portal.
If for some reason you need to open a new terminal, then click on this button at the top.
Now remember that this is not a replica of the actual Kubernetes certification exam, so the interface
and your experience in the actual exam is going to be slightly different than this.
This is a custom solution we built to help you practice for it, and to test your skills and to guide
you and to prepare you for the actual exam.
Now, don't be too worried about the exam interface itself.
After all, it's going to be the tasks that you must perform and the terminal side by side.
So almost like our lab environment, so it should be easy to follow.
Don't stress too much about it.
You can take these tests over and over as many times as you like until you feel confident.
And remember, this is a temporary environment and is only available for one hour depending on the mock
exam or your particular lab environment, after which it is deleted so your work will not be saved.
You may refresh the lab window anytime and it should take you back to the same lab environment.
So for example, if you temporarily lose internet connectivity, uh, and if you restart your, uh,
your lab environment or you refresh your web page, it should take you back to the same lab environment.
However, if you close the browser for a long time or your lab session is idle for a long time, then
it will be automatically terminated.
But you can always refresh the page and reload a new lab environment and start from the first question.
Also note that you must not use or store any personal credentials or persistent work in this environment.
And finally, remember that the practice tests are not just to test your skills, and the concepts you
learned in the lecture are designed for you to learn the concept and gain hands on experience.
So there may be topics that are not discussed in the lecture.
There might be times where you're stuck, and if you're stuck, of course you can reach out to us and
you can even try it again.
If you if you don't know anything, you you have, you must go through the documentation pages and try
to find the answers.
So to to push you to read the documentation pages and find information and implement them is the idea
behind these practice tests.
So as always, if you need additional explanation on any topic, then please do reach out to us and
let us know.
But every question or every task that you're assigned to in the labs, you will have hints or solutions
in the Hints and Solutions tab that that should be visible along with your question.

--- Demo: Accessing Labs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Course setup - accessing the labs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Pods ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Pods (optional) ---

-: Okay, so let's go over the solution for the labs on pods.
So in this lab we're gonna get familiar with pods.
So the first question is how many pods exist on the system?
Now, we know that we can get the information
about pods using the kubectl get pods command.
That's what we learned, so we're gonna run
the kubectl get pods command, and you can ignore this line
here that says in the current default namespace,
so we're gonna talk about namespaces
in one of the upcoming lectures,
so you don't have to worry about that for now.
This is for those who already know what a namespace is.
If you know, then just make sure you're checking the number
of pods in the current default namespace.
Okay, so when we're on the kubectl get pods command,
we see the result is zero, there are no resources found.
So we're gonna select zero here.
Okay so the next is a task, so we've got to create a new pod
with the Engine x image, so to create a pod,
the easiest way is to run the kubectl run command,
and we specify the image, so we have to specify a name
and an image, so if you're not sure about the syntax,
run the help command, and we see it's the name
of the pod followed by the image, this format.
So we're gonna run that, it's kubectl, run.
And since the, there's no specification about the name
of the pod, so we could basically name it anything.
But the image name has to be an x.
Okay, so the pod is created.
Okay, now how many pods are created now?
We've created a few more pods, so please check again.
So let's run the kubectl get pods command.
Okay, so in addition to the Engine x pod that we created,
there are a few other pods that were created
by us basically, so there are in a total 1, 2, 3, 4 pods
at the moment, so let's select four.
What is the image used to create the new pods?
You must look at one of the new pods
in detail to figure this out, so let's pick one of the pods,
this one, and we know that to look at it in detail,
we've got to run the kubectl describe command.
Okay, so now we have additional details about the pod.
So this is the name of the pod, and you have the start time,
and a number of other details.
So the question is, what is the image used
to create the new pods, so we know that this tells us
the containers, and here you have the image
and the image is BusyBox, so let's select BusyBox.
Okay, now which nodes are these pods placed on?
You must look at all the pods in detail to figure this out.
So one way to do this is we've already
run the kubectl describe pod command,
and we can see that this is on node control plane,
and we could actually run the the describe command
against each pod, so that's one way to figure that out.
Another way, and an easier way,
is to just run kubectl get pods command
with the wide option, and here you get to see the node
and it says control plane, so all of the new pods
are created on the control plane node, select Control Plane.
Okay, and how many containers are part of the pod, Web App?
So there's a new pod created, this one,
get pods command to see Web App.
Okay, so if, if you look at this column right here,
it shows us the total number of containers part of the pod.
So this number right here is the total number of containers.
So that's one way to figure that out
or you could always run the describe command
to see that in detail, so here you see containers
and then you have one container here,
that's Engine x and the other one right here.
So those are the two containers, so select two.
Then you have what images are used
in the new web app pod, you must look at all the pods
in detail to figure this out, actually it should be,
you must look at all the containers in detail.
So here you have two containers and
if you look at, if you look here,
you see that the image for Engine x is Engine x
and the one for Agent x is called Agent x.
So there's Engine x and Agent x, those are the images used
for those containers, so this one.
Okay, now what is a state of the container, Agent x
in the pod, Web App, so if you look at the container here
and you see there are, there is a state,
and it is in a waiting state at the moment.
So out of these, it's not running ready or success,
it's actually error or waiting, so this is the state.
Okay, now why do you think the container, Agent x
in pod, Web App, is in an error or waiting state?
So try to figure it out from the Events section of the pod.
So if you look at one of the section here, under state,
you have the reason called as Error Image Pull,
or if you just look at it below here in the Event section,
you can see the error which is basically this one,
it says, "Fail to pull image, Agent x,"
and, "at docker.io/library/agentx."
So this image by the name Agent x does not exist.
And that's basically the reason that it's failing.
So the correct answer is a docker image
with this name doesn't exist on Docker Hub.
Okay, now what does the Ready column
in the output of the kubectl get pods command indicate?
So if you go up here, you have the output
of the get pods command and here you see,
you have one slash one here and then you have one slash two.
So what does this mean, now we know that
this is the total containers within the pod
and this is basically, of course, the ones that are ready.
So at the moment, there's only one ready out of the two,
and we know that because this image does not exist,
and of course, that's why that container isn't ready yet.
So it's basically the total containers that are ready
slash just the total containers within the pod.
So that's total containers in the pod
or a running containers in the pod
slash total containers in the pod,
so that's the correct answer, okay,
so the next task is to delete the Web App.
So let's run the kubectl delete command
and delete the Web App pod, okay, that's deleted.
Let's go to the next one, create a new pod
with the name Redis and with the image, Redis123.
And the recommendation is to use a pod definition
yaml file and the image name is wrong.
Yeah, so the image name is wrong.
So we could do this in two ways.
So as we know, we could run the kubectl run command,
and the name of the pod is Redis
and the name of the image is Redis123.
You could basically just create it like this,
but we just wanna get familiar with generating the yaml file
and creating it with the pod definition file.
So let's use the dry-run option
and output the, the commands in a yaml format.
Okay, so, so this is basically
command and it says, "The dry-run command is deprecated,"
and it's replaced with the dry-run equals client,
So let's run that, okay, so this is the yaml file.
So let's direct it to a file, we'll call it Redis.yaml.
So we have the yaml definition for that pod in this file.
So we're now going to create the pod
using kubectl create or apply command.
So let's go with the create command.
Okay, so it's created, let's verify that it's created.
Okay, so it's created and it's in an error image pool state
because we have the wrong image name, so that's fine.
Let's click on Check, okay, successful.
And the last question for this lab is
to change the image on this pod to Redis
to fix that error that we, you know, purposefully created,
and to get the pod in a running state.
So again, there are two ways to do that.
You could run the kubectl edit command
to edit the the pod, or since we already
have the Redis file, we could just go in
and change the file and update it.
So let's go and do that.
Okay, I've changed the image name.
I'm just going to apply the changes.
Okay, let's check, add it.
Now, we'll talk about this error message later
when we talk about imperative commands
and the declarative way that we apply.
But for now, let's stick to the basics,
and then just make sure the change was successful,
all right, so when I run the kubectl get pods command,
we see that the pod is in a running state.
So run check, all right, okay, so that's the end
of the lab, let's hit the End Lab button,
and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Recap - ReplicaSets ---

Controllers are the brain behind Kubernetes.
They are the processes that monitor Kubernetes objects and respond accordingly.
In this lecture, we will discuss about one controller in particular and that is the replication controller.
So what is a replica and why do we need a replication controller?
Let's go back to our first scenario where we had a single pod running our application.
What if for some reason our application crashes and the pod fails, users will no longer be able to
access our application?
To prevent users from losing access to our application, we would like to have more than one instance
or pod running at the same time.
That way, if one fails, we still have our application running on the other one.
The replication controller helps us run multiple instances of a single pod in the Kubernetes cluster,
Thus providing high availability.
So does that mean you can't use a replication controller if you plan to have a single pod?
No.
Even if you have a single pod, replication controller can help by automatically bringing up a new pod
when the existing one fails.
Thus, the replication controller ensures that the specified number of pods are running at all times,
even if it's just 1 or 100.
Another reason we need replication controller is to create multiple pods to share the load across them.
For example, in this simple scenario, we have a single pod serving a set of users.
When the number of users increased, we deploy additional pod to balance the load across the two pods.
If the demand further increases, and if we were to run out of resources on the first node, we could
deploy additional pods across the other nodes in the cluster.
As you can see, the replication controller spans across multiple nodes in the cluster.
It helps us balance the load across multiple pods on different nodes, as well as scale our application
when the demand increases.
It's important to note that there are two similar terms replication controller and replica set.
Both have the same purpose, but they are not the same.
Replication controller is the older technology that is being replaced by replica set.
Replica set is the new recommended way to set up replication.
However, whatever we discussed in the previous few slides remain applicable to both these technologies.
There are minor differences in the way each works, and we will look at that in a bit.
As such, we will try to stick to replica sets in all of our demos and implementations going forward.
So let us now look at how we create a replication controller.
As with the previous lecture, we start by creating a replication controller definition file.
We will name it rc definition dot YAML.
As with any Kubernetes definition file, we have four sections the API, version, kind, metadata,
and spec.
The API version is specific to what we are creating.
In this case, replication controller is supported in Kubernetes API version v1.
So we will set it as v1.
The kind as we know is replication controller.
Under metadata we will add a name and we will call it Myapp dash RC.
And we will also add a few labels app and type and assign values to them.
So far, it has been very similar to how we created a pod in the previous section.
The next is the most crucial part of the definition file, and that is the specification written as
spec for any Kubernetes definition file.
The spec section defines what's inside the object we are creating.
In this case, we know that the replication controller creates multiple instances of a pod.
But what pod?
We create a template section under spec to provide a pod template to be used by the replication controller
to create replicas.
Now how do we define the pod template?
It's not that hard because we have already done that in the previous exercise.
Remember we created a Pod definition file in the previous exercise, we could reuse the contents of
the file.
To populate the templates section, move all the contents of the Pod definition file into the template
section of the replication controller, except for the first few lines which are API, version and kind.
Remember, whatever we move must be under the templates section, meaning they should be intended to
the right and have more spaces before them than the template line itself.
They should be children of the template section.
Looking at our file now, we now have two metadata sections.
One is for the replication controller and another for the pod.
And we have two spec sections, one for each.
We have nested two definition files together, the replication controller being the parent and the pod
definition being the child.
Now there is something still missing.
We haven't mentioned how many replicas we need in the replication controller.
For that, add another property to the spec called replicas and input the number of replicas you need
under it.
Remember that the template and replicas are direct children of spec sections, so they are siblings
and must be on the same vertical line, which means having equal number of spaces before them.
Once the file is ready, run the kubectl create command and input the file using the f parameter.
The replication controller is created when the replication controller is created.
It first creates the pods using the pod definition template as many as required, which is three in
this case.
To view the list of created replication controllers, run the kubectl get replication controller command
and you will see the replication controller listed.
We can also see the desired number of replicas or pods, the current number of replicas, and how many
of them are ready in the output.
If you would like to see the pods that were created by the replication controller, run the kubectl
get pods command and you will see three pods running.
Note that all of them are starting with the name of the replication controller, which is my app RC,
indicating that they are all created automatically by the replication controller.
What we just saw was the replication controller.
Let us now look at replica set.
It is very similar to replication controller as usual.
First we have API version kind metadata and spec.
The API version though is a bit different.
It is apps slash v1, which is different from what we had before.
For replication controller which was just v1.
If you get this wrong, you are likely to get an error that looks like this.
It would say no match for kind replica set, because the specified Kubernetes API version has no support
for replica set.
The kind would be replica set and we add name and labels in the metadata.
The specification section looks very similar to Replication controller.
It has a template section where we provide pod definition as before.
So I'm going to copy contents over from pod definition file.
And we have number of replicas which is set to three.
However there is one major difference between replication controller and replica set.
Replica set requires a selector definition.
The selector section helps the replica set identify what pods fall under it, but why would you have
to specify what pods fall under it if you have provided the contents of the pod definition file itself
in the template.
It's because replica set can also manage pods that were not created as part of the replica set creation.
Say for example, there were pods created before the creation of the replica set that matched labels
specified in the selector.
The replica set will also take those pods into consideration when creating the replicas.
I will elaborate this in the next slide, but before we get into that, I would like to mention that
the selector is one of the major differences between replication controller and replica set.
The selector is not a required field in case of a replication controller, but it is still available
when you skip it, as we did in the previous slide.
It assumes it to be the same as the labels provided in the Pod definition file.
In case of replica set, a user input is required for this property, and it has to be written in the
form of match labels as shown here.
The match labels selector simply matches the labels specified under it to the labels on the pods.
The replica set selector also provides many other options for matching labels that were not available
in a replication controller.
And as always, to create a replica set, run the kubectl create command, providing the definition
file as input.
And to see the created replicas run the kubectl get replica set command to get list of pods.
Simply run the kube control get pods command.
So what is the deal with labels and selectors?
Why do we label our pods and objects in Kubernetes?
Let us look at a simple scenario.
Say we deployed three instances of our front end web application has three parts.
We would like to create a replication controller or replica set to ensure that we have three active
pods at any time.
And yes, that is one of the use case of replica sets.
You can use it to monitor existing pods if you have them already created as it is in this example.
In case they were not created, the replica set will create them for you.
The role of the replica set is to monitor the pods and if any of them were to fail, deploy new ones.
The replica set is in fact a process that monitors the pods.
Now, how does the replica set know what pods to monitor?
There could be hundreds of other pods in the cluster running different applications.
This is where labeling our pods during creation comes in handy.
We could now provide these labels as a filter for replica set under the selector section, we use the
Match Labels filter and provide the same label that we used while creating the pods.
This way, the replica set knows which pods to monitor.
The same concept of labels and selectors is used in many other places throughout Kubernetes.
Now let me ask you a question along the same lines.
In the replica set specification section, we learned that there are three sections template, replicas,
and selector.
We need three replicas and we have updated our selector based on our discussion in the previous slide.
Say for instance, we have the same scenario as in the previous slide where we have three existing parts
that were created already.
And we need to create a replica set to monitor the pods to ensure there are a minimum of three running
at all times.
When the replication controller is created, it is not going to deploy a new instance of Pod.
As three of them with matching labels are already created.
In that case, do we really need to provide a template session in the replica set specification?
Since we are not expecting the replica set to create a new pod on deployment?
Yes we do.
Because in case one of the pods were to fail in the future, the replica set needs to create a new one
to maintain the desired number of pods.
And for the replica set to create a new pod, the template definition section is required.
Let's now look at how we scale the replica set.
Say we started with three replicas and the future.
We decided to scale to six.
How do we update our replica set to scale to six replicas?
Well, there are multiple ways to do it.
The first is to update the number of replicas in the definition file to six.
Then run the kubectl replace command to specify the same file using the f parameter, and that will
update the replica set to have six replicas.
The second way to do it is to run the kube control scale command.
Use the replicas parameter to provide the new number of replicas and specify the same file as input.
You may either input the definition file or provide the replica set name in the type name format.
However, remember that using the file name as input will not result in the number of replicas being
updated automatically in the file.
In other words, the number of replicas in the replica set definition file will still be three, even
though you scaled your replica set to have six replicas using the Kube control scale command and the
file as input.
There are also options available for automatically scaling the replica set based on load, but that
is an advanced topic and we will discuss it at a later time.
Let us now review the commands real quick.
The cube control create command as we know, is used to create a replica, set or basically any object
in Kubernetes depending on the file we are providing as input.
You must provide the input file using the dash f parameter.
Use the kube control.
Get command to see the list of replica sets created.
Use the cube control delete replica set command followed by the name of the replica set to delete the
replica set, and then we have the control replace command to replace or update the replica set, and
also the Kube control scale command to scale replica set simply from the command line without having
to modify the file.
That's it for this lecture.

--- Lab - ReplicaSets ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - ReplicaSets (optional) ---

-: Okay, so, in this video we're gonna go over
the solution for the lab on ReplicaSets.
So, let's start with the first question.
So, the first question is,
how many pods exist on the system?
So, just like before,
we are on the Kubectl get pods command
and there are no pods at the moment, so select zero.
The next question is
how many ReplicaSets exist on the system?
So we run the Kubectl get ReplicaSet command
and at zero.
So, some changes were made
and let's check the ReplicaSet now
and we see that there's one created.
So, let's just select one.
Now the question is
how many pods are desired in the new ReplicaSet?
So we know that from the output,
the desired number of pods
in the ReplicaSet is number four,
so let's select four.
Now, what is the image used to create the pods
in the new ReplicaSet?
So, we can find that out by looking at
the ReplicaSet in a bit more detail.
And for that we know we have to run
the Kubectl describe command.
And we're gonna run describe ReplicaSet
and then new ReplicaSet
and hit the the tab key to auto complete
the names of what you're looking for.
So, in this output, we see the pod template
and the image that's used, it's busy box 777.
So, that's the question
and here is the answer.
So busy box 777.
Now how many pods are ready in the new ReplicaSet?
So, if you look at the output here,
it says the number of pods that are ready are zero.
You can also see the same kind of here,
the pod status zero running.
So, it is zero.
Now, why do you think the pods are not ready?
So, if you look at this, you have,
so we'll need to look at one of these pods
in a bit more detail.
Of course it's obvious, but I mean,
I just wanna show you,
if you're not sure what the error is
then you've got to look at one of these pods
in a bit more detail.
So, let's run the Kubectl describe command
and look at any one of the pods in a bit more detail.
And you see it's basically because
it's failed to pull the image busy box 777
so the repository does not exist.
So there's no image by the name busy box 777,
that's a reason, so let's check that.
Now, the question is to delete any one of the pod.
Sorry, it's clear from the get pods command
and we've got to delete any one of these pods.
So, that's done.
So, how many pods exist now?
Let's run the get pods command again.
Let me see that there's still four pods running.
So, even though we deleted one
the one that we deleted is not here,
the one that starts with the WK,
but there are still four pods.
So, that exercise was just to show that
even if you delete a pod,
pod of ReplicaSet,
it's automatically going to recreate a new one.
And if you look at the age here,
you can see that the new one that was created
was just 17 seconds ago
as opposed to the other ones
that have been running for three minutes or more.
Okay, so why are there still four pods
even after you deleted it?
It's not because I didn't delete it properly,
it's not because you cannot delete a pod from a ReplicaSet,
it's because ReplicaSet ensures that
the desired number of pods always run.
So, the next one is to create a ReplicaSet
using the ReplicaSet definition file
located at root.
So let's look at where that is.
So there's one here
and there's an issue with the file,
so we have to try and fix it.
So, let's first try to create it.
So Kubectl create this F partial root,
ReplicaSet definition on that YAML.
So the error is that
it's unable to recognize this file,
no matches for kind ReplicaSet in version V1.
So, there's something wrong here.
Either the kind ReplicaSet is incorrect
or the version we want is incorrect.
So, let's look at the file
and we see that the APA version is V1
and kind is ReplicaSet.
And as we learned from the previous video,
the APA version is incorrect.
But if you're not sure what it is,
one way to find that out
is using the Kubectl explain command.
So run the Kubectl explain ReplicaSet command, sorry.
And here you can see the version.
So, the version is supposed to be apps/V1,
so that's the problem.
So let's go ahead and fix that apps/V1
and let's try and delete that again.
So, it is now being created.
Okay, so let's go to the next one.
So next task is to fix the issue in the second file
and create the ReplicaSet.
So let's try that.
Let's just first try to create it.
Okay, so it says there's an invalid value selector
does not match template labels.
So, let's take a look at the file here.
And we see the API version is apps/V1
which is correct,
the kind is ReplicaSet,
that also seems to be correct.
The metadata is the name
and then you have the spec section.
So you have replicas, you have selector.
So there is something wrong here,
which is why it didn't work.
Let's find that out.
So here it says, invalid value selector
does not match the template labels.
So, basically the issue here is that you have
the labels specified here called tier front end,
and then the label for the pod
that the ReplicaSet will create is engine X.
So, these two should match,
otherwise the ReplicaSet cannot basically manage
the pods that it creates.
So we've got to either change this to front end
or change this to engine X
but at the end, both of them should match.
So, let's change this to engine X,
save this file and run it again.
And that's now created.
Okay, let's go to the next one.
Now, we've got to delete
the two newly created ReplicaSets.
So, let's first look at the status right now.
You can also run just RS instead of ReplicaSet,
which is the short form.
And now we've got delete both of these ReplicaSets.
So, go to delete RS, ReplicaSet one and two.
You can also give multiple in the same command.
Okay, so that's done.
Now, fix the original ReplicaSet
to use the correct busy box image.
So, we know that the first one
which is we not only have one,
and we know that there are none of the pods
are in a ready state.
And we also know that because A,
the image name is incorrect,
so we've got to know fix that.
So for this, let's run the Kubectl edit command
and edit the new replica step.
And let's go into the container section
and change the image name to just busy box
and save that file
and let's check status of pods now
on the ReplicaSet,
so it's still zero.
Let's just give it some time for it to delete the old pods
and create new ones with the new image.
Write RS.
Okay, so when you update a ReplicaSet,
even though the image name is updated,
the pods are not automatically recreated, right?
So you have to either delete and recreate
the entire ReplicaSet
or you have to delete all the pods
so that the ReplicaSet creates new pods
with the new image name.
So, let's go back and let's look at pods.
And you see there's all still in the error state.
So, we're just going to go through and delete them.
We're gonna give the name of each one
and we'll just wait all of them to be terminated.
Let's run get pods again.
Okay, it's in a creating state
and it's in a running state.
Let's check the status of the ReplicaSet now
and you can see that they're all in a ready state.
Let's go to the next one.
Now we've got to scale the ReplicaSet to five pods.
So let's run the Kubectl scale command
and specify the number of replicas to five.
Let's check the status
and we can see that a new pod has been added.
We can also do that using the edit command.
So, we could do a Kubectl edit RS
and specify the name of the ReplicaSet,
and then go here
and just change this number to the desired number
and then save the file
but we're not gonna do that right now.
So that's done.
And now the task is
to scale the ReplicaSet down to two pods.
So, this time, let's use the other approach.
So let's edit new ReplicaSet.
Go to the number here and set it to two.
Let's check.
Okay, so that's it for this lab.
And next we'll look at deployments.

--- Deployments ---

In this lecture we will discuss about Kubernetes deployments.
For a minute.
Let us forget about pods and replica sets and other Kubernetes concepts, and talk about how you might
want to deploy your application in a production environment.
Say, for example, you have a web server that needs to be deployed in a production environment.
You need not one, but many such instances of the web server running for obvious reasons.
Secondly, whenever newer versions of application builds become available on the Docker registry, you
would like to upgrade your Docker instances seamlessly.
However, when you upgrade your instances, you do not want to upgrade all of them at once, as we just
did.
This may impact users accessing our applications, so you might want to upgrade them one after the other.
And that kind of upgrade is known as rolling updates.
Suppose one of the upgrades you performed resulted in an unexpected error, and you're asked to undo
the recent change You would like to be able to roll back the changes that were recently carried out.
Finally, say, for example, you would like to make multiple changes to your environment, such as
upgrading the underlying web server versions, as well as scaling your environment and also modifying
the resource allocations, etc. you do not want to apply each change immediately after the command is
run.
Instead, you would like to apply a path to your environment, make the changes and then resume so that
all the changes are rolled out together.
All of these capabilities are available with the Kubernetes deployments.
So far in this course, we discussed about pods, which deploy single instances of our application,
such as the web application.
In this case, each container is encapsulated in pods.
Multiple such pods are deployed using replication controllers or replica sets.
And then comes deployment, which is a Kubernetes object that comes higher in the hierarchy.
The deployment provides us with the capability to upgrade the underlying instances seamlessly using
rolling updates, undo changes, and pause and resume changes as required.
So how do we create a deployment?
As with the previous components, we first create a deployment definition file.
The contents of the deployment definition file are exactly similar to the replica set definition file,
except for the kind which is now going to be deployment.
If we walk through the contents of the file, it has an API version which is apps forward slash v1 metadata,
which has name and labels, and a spec that has template replicas and selector.
The template has a pod definition inside it.
Once the file is ready, run the kube control create command and specify the deployment definition file.
Then run the kube control.
Get deployments command to see the newly created deployment.
The deployment automatically creates a replica set.
So if you run the kube control get replica set command, you will be able to see a new replica set in
the name of the deployment.
The replica sets ultimately create paths, so if you run the cube Control get Pods command, you will
be able to see the pods with the name of the deployment and the replica set.
So far, there hasn't been much of a difference between replica set and deployments, except for the
fact that deployments created a new Kubernetes object called deployments.
We will see how to take advantage of the deployment using the use cases we discussed in the previous
slide in the upcoming lectures.
And one more note before we end this lecture to see all the created objects at once, run the cube control
get all command.
And in this case we can see that the deployment was created.
And then we have the replica set followed by three pods that we created as part of the deployment.
That's it for this lecture.
We will now head over to a demo and I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Certification Tip! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Deployments ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Deployments (optional) ---

Instructor: Okay, so in this lab
we'll get introduced to deployments.
So let us begin.
The first question is how many pods exist on the system?
So let's run, "Kubectl get pods" command
and we see there are no pods.
And, the next one is,
to identify the number of replica assets.
And there are none.
So the answer is zero.
Okay, and now it's a number of deployments.
So "deployments",
and that's the rule as well.
So it's a clean environment.
There are no pods, no replica sets
or deployments at the moment.
But some changes have been made.
So we're now check the deployments again.
Okay, so there is one deployment.
Okay, so the answer is one.
Now how many replica sets exist on the system?
Now we know that there's one deployment.
You do not know how many replica sets,
so let's just run the "get RS" command again to
check the number of replica sets.
So that's, that's one replica set.
So basically the deployment called
"front end deployment" has now created a replica set,
named "front end deployment dash" some, some numbers.
So that's the, the name
of the replica set that the deployment has created.
And then let's also check the number of pods now.
And there are four pods.
So basically that's what we're trying to understand here.
There was nothing before when we created a deployment.
It's created a replica set,
and then it's also created four pods.
Now, out of all the existing pods, how many are ready?
So if you look at the status here,
out of four pods, zero are ready.
So let's select zero.
And what is the image used to create the pods,
in the new deployment?
So let's take a look,
at one of the pods in a bit more detail.
Describe pod.
Round and deployment.
And maybe we'll just pick one of, one of the pod.
And we see the image used is "busy box 888".
So lets select that.
Now I know that there's a little bit
of repetition between different exercises here,
but this is mainly to get you familiar with,
some of these commands, right?
The get commands, and the describe commands.
And I promise that we have more fun stuff coming
up in the upcoming labs.
So we're just getting started.
Okay, so why do you think the deployment is not ready?
And as before, we know that it's
because the image "busy box 888" does not exist.
So let's select that.
Okay, so the next task is to create a new deployment
using the deployment definition one file in route.
So we're already in route, so let's check this file.
So let's try to create the deployment using the file.
Okay, and it didn't go.
It didn't go through,
so there is some kind of error.
So it says "No kind deployment is registered
for version apps slash B one".
So if we look at the file.
We see that the API version is "App slash B one",
which seems to be correct,
but the kind is deployment, which is also right.
But the issue is that it's case sensitive, right?
So the cap, the first character has to be a capital letter.
So that's kind of the standard for kind.
So the reason we have these kind
of exercises is just to help you understand and
and learn how to, you know,
know what the issue is when you come up across these errors.
So oftentimes you'll, you'll face these kind
of errors because of these kind of typos or you know
what's not being spelled correctly or not in the right case.
And you should know what those mean when you,
when you see these kind of errors.
So there's, there are possibilities that you may mix
up the API version or kind and we don't want to spend a lot
of time during the exam just not knowing what those are.
So that's the reason for these kind of exercises.
So I've just fixed that and let's proceed with the creation.
Okay, so that went through.
And the final task is to create
a new deployment with the below attributes.
So you have the name, you have the replicas,
and you have the image.
So to create an object, we know we can run the Kubectl
create command, and it's time we wanna create a deployment.
And let's take a look at the help for that.
And we see there are different options.
So you can create a deployment,
specify a name with an image.
So we have a name and we have an image.
But we also wanna specify the number of replicas.
So there is a command just for that.
So you have the name, the image, and the replica.
So that's what we're going to follow.
So on the Kubectl, create deployment command
and specify the name, which is "Httpd front end".
And,
the image,
is.
And it's good to create a practice of copying and pasting
from the question as that will also help you in the exam
if you are learning this,
for the purpose of giving the exam.
And the replicas is number three.
Okay, so, and also make it a practice,
always verify if what you did this right?
So Kubectl will get deployed.
We have the Httpd front end deployment,
and we also wanna make sure.
That it goes to a ready state.
Yep.
So three out of three are ready.
Check our work.
Okay.
So that's done,
and that's the end of this lab.

--- Services ---

In this lecture we will discuss about Kubernetes services.
Kubernetes services enable communication between various components within and outside of the application.
Kubernetes services helps us connect applications together with other applications or users.
For example, our application has groups of pods running various sections, such as a group for serving
a front end load to users, another group for running back end processes, and a third group connecting
to an external data source.
It is services that enable connectivity between these groups of pods.
Services enable the front end application to be made available to end users.
It helps communication between backend and frontend pods and helps in establishing connectivity to an
external data source.
Thus, services enable loose coupling between microservices in our application.
Let's take a look at one use case of services.
So far we talked about how pods communicate with each other through internal networking.
Let's look at some other aspects of networking in this lecture.
Let's start with external communication.
So we deployed our pod having a web application running on it.
How do we as an external user access the web page?
First of all let's look at the existing setup.
The Kubernetes node has an IP address and that is 192.168.1.2.
My laptop is on the same network as well, so it has an IP address 192.168.1.1.
The internal Pod network is in the range 10.244.0.0, and the pod has an IP 10.244.0.2.
Clearly I cannot ping or access the pod at address 244.0.2 as it's in a separate network.
So what are the options to see the web page?
First, if we were to SSH into the Kubernetes node at 192.168.1.2, from the node, we would be able
to access the pods web page by doing a curl, or if the node has a GUI, we would fire up a browser
and see the web page in a browser following the HTTP 10.244.0.2.
But this is from inside the Kubernetes node, and that's not what I really want.
I want to be able to access the web server from my own laptop, without having to SSH into the node,
and simply by accessing the IP of the Kubernetes node.
So we need something in the middle to help us map requests to the node from our laptop, through the
node to the pod running the web container.
This is where the Kubernetes service comes into play.
The Kubernetes service is an object just like pods, replica sets, or deployments that we worked with
before.
One of its use cases is to listen to a port on the node, and forward requests on that port to a port
on the pod running the web application.
This type of service is known as a node port service, because the service listens to a port on the
node and forward requests to the pods.
There are other kinds of services available which we will now discuss.
The first one is what we discussed already.
Node port where the service makes an internal pod accessible on a port on the node.
The second is cluster IP and in this case the service creates a virtual IP inside the cluster to enable
communication between different services, such as a set of front end servers to a set of back end backend
servers.
The third type is a load balancer, where it provisions a load balancer for our application in supported
cloud providers.
A good example of that would be to distribute load across the different web servers in your front end
tier.
We will now look at each of these in a bit more detail along with some demos.
In this lecture we will discuss about the Nodeport Kubernetes service.
Getting back to Nodeport a few slides back, we discussed about external access to the application.
We said that a service can help us by mapping a port on the node to a port on the pod.
Let's take a closer look at the service.
If you look at it, there are three ports involved.
The port on the pod where the actual web server is running is 80, and it is referred to as the target
port because that is where the service forwards the request to the second port is the port on the service
itself.
It is simply referred to as the port.
Remember these terms are from the viewpoint of the service.
The service is in fact like a virtual server inside the node.
Inside the cluster.
It has its own IP address, and that IP address is called the cluster IP of the service.
And finally we have the port on the node itself which we use to access the web server externally.
And that is known as the node port.
As you can see it is set to 30,008.
That is because node ports can only be in a valid range, which by default is from 30,000 to 32,767.
Let's now look at how to create the service.
Just like how we created a deployment replica set or pod in the past.
We will use a definition file to create a service.
The high level structure of the file remains the same as before.
We have the API version kind, metadata and spec sections.
The API version is going to be v1.
The kind is of course service.
The metadata will have a name and that will be the name of the service.
It can have labels, but we don't need that for now.
Next we have spec and as always, this is the most crucial part of the file as this is where we will
be defining the actual services.
And this is the part of a definition file that differs between different objects in the spec section
of a service.
We have type and ports.
The type refers to the type of service we are creating.
As discussed before, it could be cluster, IP node, port or load balancer.
In this case, since we are creating a node port, we will set it as node port.
The next part of a spec is ports.
This is where we input information regarding what we discussed on the left side of the screen.
The first type of port is the target port, which we will set to 80.
The next one is simply port, which is the port on the service object.
And we will set that to 80 as well.
The third is node port, which we will set to 30,008 or any number in the valid range.
Remember that out of these the only mandatory field is port.
If you don't provide a target port, it is assumed to be the same as port.
And if you don't provide a node port, a free port in the valid range between 30,000 and 32,767 is automatically
allocated.
Also note that ports is an array, so note the dash under the ports section that indicate the first
element in the array.
You can have multiple such port mappings within a single service.
So we have all the information in.
But something is really missing.
There is nothing here in the definition file that connects the service to the pod.
We have simply specified the target port, but we didn't mention the target port on which pod.
There could be hundreds of other pods with web services running on port 80.
So how do we do that?
As we did with the replica sets previously, and a technique that you will see very often in Kubernetes.
We will use labels and selectors to link these together.
We know that the pod was created with a label.
We need to bring that label into the service definition file.
So we have a new property in the specs section and that is called selector.
Just like in a replica set and deployment definition, files under the selector provide a list of labels
to identify the pod.
For this, refer to the pod definition file used to create the pod.
Pull the labels from the pod definition file and place it under the selector section.
This links the service to the pod.
Once done, create the service using the kube control.
Create command and input the service definition file and there you have the service created.
To see the created service, run the kube control.
Get service's command that lists the service, the cluster IP and the mapped ports.
The type is node port as we created and the port on the node is set to 30,008, because that's the port
that we specified in the definition file.
We can now use this port to access the web service using Curl or a web browser.
So curl to 1921681.2, which is the IP of the node.
And then I use the port 30,008 to access the web server.
So far we talked about a service mapped to a single pod, but that's not the case all the time.
What do you do when you have multiple pods in a production environment?
You have multiple instances of your web application running for high availability and load balancing
purposes.
In this case, we have multiple similar pods running our web application.
They all have the same labels with a key app and set to a value of my app.
The same label is used as a selector during the creation of the service.
So when the service is created, it looks for a matching pod with the label and finds three of them.
The service then automatically selects all the three pods as endpoints to forward the external requests
coming from the user.
You don't have to do any additional configuration to make this happen.
And if you're wondering what algorithm it uses to balance the load across the three different pods,
it uses a random algorithm.
Thus, the service acts as a built in load balancer to distribute load across different pods.
And finally, let's look at what happens when the pods are distributed across multiple nodes.
In this case, we have the web application on pods on separate nodes in the cluster.
When we create a service without us having to do any additional configuration, Kubernetes automatically
creates a service that spans across all the nodes in the cluster and maps the target port to the same
node port on all the nodes in the cluster.
This way, you can access your application using the IP of any node in the cluster and using the same
port number, which in this case is 30,008.
As you can see, using the IP of any of these nodes, and I'm trying to curl to the same port and the
same port is made available on all the nodes part of the cluster.
To summarize, in any case, whether it be a single pod on a single node, multiple pods on a single
node, or multiple pods on multiple nodes, the service is created exactly the same without you having
to do any additional steps during the service creation.
When pods are removed or added, the service is automatically updated, making it highly flexible and
adaptive.
Once created, you won't typically have to make any additional configuration changes.
That's it for this lecture.
Head over to the demo and I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Services Cluster IP ---

In this lecture we will discuss about the Kubernetes Service cluster IP.
A full stack web application typically has different kinds of pods hosting different parts of an application.
You may have a number of pods running a front end web server, another set of pods running a back end
server, a set of pods running a key value store like Redis, and another set of pods.
Maybe running a persistent database like MySQL.
The web front end server needs to communicate to the backend servers, and the backend servers need
to communicate to the database as well as the Redis services, etc..
So what is the right way to establish connectivity between these services or tiers of my application?
The pods all have an IP address assigned to them, as we can see on the screen, but these IPS as we
know, are not static.
These pods can go down any time, and new pods are created all the time.
And so you cannot rely on these IP addresses for internal communication between the application.
Also, what if the first front end pod at ten 244 .0.3 need to connect to a back end backend service.
Which of the three will it go to?
And who makes that decision?
A Kubernetes service can help us group the pods together, and provide a single interface to access
the pods in a group.
For example, a service created for the backend pods will help group all the backend pods together and
provide a single interface for other pods to access this service.
The requests are forwarded to one of the pods under the service randomly.
Similarly, create additional services for Redis and allow the backend pods to access the Redis systems
through the service.
This enables us to easily and effectively deploy a microservices based application on Kubernetes cluster.
Each layer can now scale or move as required without impacting communication between the various services.
Each service gets an IP and name assigned to it inside the cluster, and that is the name that should
be used by other paths to access the service.
This type of service is known as cluster IP.
To create such a service, as always, use a definition file in the service definition file.
First use the default template which has API version kind metadata and spec.
The API version is v1, kind is service and we will give a name to our service.
We will call it backend.
Under specification we have type and ports.
The type is cluster IP.
In fact cluster IP is the default type.
So even if you didn't specify it, it will automatically assume the type to be cluster IP.
Under ports we have a target port and port.
The target port is the port where the backend is exposed, which in this case is 80, and the port is
where the service is exposed, which is 80 as well.
To link the service to a set of ports, we use selector.
We will refer to the pod definition file and copy the labels from it and move it under selector, and
that should be it.
We can now create the service using the kube control create command and then check its status using
the Kube control Get Services command.
The service can be accessed by other pods using the cluster IP or the service name.

--- Services - Loadbalancer ---

Let us now look at another type of service known as the load balancer type.
So we have seen the node port service that helps us make an external facing application available on
a port on the worker nodes.
So let's turn our focus to the front end applications which are the voting app and the result app.
Now we know that these pods are hosted on the worker nodes in a cluster.
So let's say we have a four node cluster.
And to make the applications accessible to external users we create the services of type node port.
Now the services with type node port help in receiving traffic on the ports on the nodes and routing
the traffic to the respective pods.
But what URL would you give your end users to access the applications?
You could access any of these two applications using IP of any of the nodes and the port the service
is exposed on.
So that would be for IP and port combinations for the voting app and for IP and port combination for
the result app.
So note that even if your pods are only hosted on two of the nodes, they will still be accessible on
the IPS of all the nodes in the cluster.
Say the pods for the voting app are only deployed on the nodes with IP 70 and 71.
There would still be accessible on the ports of all the nodes in the cluster.
So that's how a service is configured.
So you would share these URLs to your users to access the application.
But that's not what the end users want.
They need a single URL like example voting app.com or the example app to access the application.
So how do you achieve that?
Now one way to achieve this is to create a new VM for load balancer purpose and install and configure
a suitable load balancer on it like HAProxy.
Or nginx etc. then configure the load balancer to route traffic to the underlying nodes.
Now setting all of that external load balancing and then maintaining and managing that can be a tedious
task.
However, if we were on a supported cloud platform like Google Cloud or AWS or Azure, I could leverage
the native load balancer of that cloud platform.
Kubernetes has support for integrating with the native load balancers of certain cloud providers, and
configuring and configuring that for us.
So all you need to do is set the service type for the front end services to load balancer instead of
Nodeport.
Now remember that this only works with supported cloud platforms.
And so GCP, AWS and Azure are definitely supported.
So if you set the type of service to load balancer in an unsupported environment like VirtualBox or
you know any other environments, then it would have the same effect as setting it to Nodeport where
you know the services are exposed on a high end port on the nodes.
Uh, there.
It just won't do any kind of, uh, external load balancer configuration.
Right?
So later on, um, when we walk through, uh, the demos of deploying our application on cloud platforms,
um, we will see this in action.
Right?
So that's it for now.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Lab- Services ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Services (optional) ---

-: Hey, in this video we're going to walk
over the solution for the lab on services.
So the first question is
how many services exist on the system?
So we're gonna run the kubectl get service command
or you could also run the kubectl get SVC command.
It's a short for service
and we can see that there's just one service.
So select that.
This is a default service created by Kubernetes.
Okay.
So what is the type of the default Kubernetes service?
If you look at the type, here, we see that it's cluster IP.
So let's select cluster IP.
We'll look at what this service is
in particular later when we talk about
the Kubernetes architecture,
the API server in more detail.
And for now, let's just consider it as any other service.
So what is the target port configured
on the Kubernetes service?
So for this, you've got to look
at the service in more detail.
So we're gonna do a kubectl describe node
and we're gonna describe the service named Kubernetes.
So here we see the port details,
So the port is 443, the target port is 6443.
So the question is, what is a target port?
So we'll select 6 4 43.
Okay, how many labels are configured
on the Kubernetes service?
So if you look at this right here, so there are two labels.
Component is API server and the provider's Kubernetes.
So this
this service is basically the Kubernetes API server.
Uh, we'll discuss more about the API server
and this service specifically when we learn
about the API server in detail.
And then the CK of course,
when we get to that.
So for now, the answer is two.
Okay? The next question is how many endpoints are attached
on the Kubernetes service?
So for now, we have no idea,
uh, what the service is
since this service was already created.
We don't really know what it is.
So we are kind of exploring and finding out more about it.
But one thing if we want to look
at right here and understand is how many pods
this, is the service directing traffic to?
So that's what you can see here
in the endpoints section here.
So endpoints, it says there's, there's this one IPN port.
So that's, that's one endpoint.
If there are multiple pods
that the service is directing traffic to
then there would be multiple ports here.
Let me quickly explain what endpoints are
because we have not really discussed about endpoints.
Okay? So here we have a service
and uh, three pods.
And what we do usually is when we create a pod
we know that it has a label to it.
So let's say for example, it's set
to app
and FE for front end or something.
And the way that we create a service in order to
direct traffic to these pods is we,
uh, provide the same labels
as selectors to the service.
And then what the service does is it identifies
all the pods with the same label
and then directs traffic to those pods.
So once it identifies the pod with the labels
that's when the service has these endpoints.
So from a, from the perspective
of a service endpoints are basically these, the, the pods.
The pods that the service has identified that is
going to direct traffic to based on the selector
specified on the service and the labels on the pods.
Now, when we create a service
for a set of pods that we might think
that depending on the label and the selector, we specified
the service is going to direct traffic to those pods
but it might be possible
that we have another pod which we accidentally created
with the same kind of label.
So the service is then going to direct traffic
to that pod as well.
So, and that's when, when we look at the
the output of the kubectl describe command
that we can identify the additional endpoints apart
from what we, what we thought we had configured, right?
So we're gonna see, when you look
at kubectl describe command for the service
we're gonna see that there are four endpoints.
But in fact, the, our application was,
had a replica set perhaps that just had three endpoints
or three pods.
So that's where this, the endpoint can help.
And just to, just to give you a bit context.
So let's say we create,
we have a single pod and we create a service,
we set a label to FE,
but we accidentally set
the selector to say FR something that's different.
And then when we try to access the service
we're not able to get through to the application.
And that's when we, you look at the, the description
of the service and you realize that the endpoints are zero.
So that means the service has not identified any pods
right? So, and then, then that's when we can look
at the labels and selectors in, in
in more detail to identify the root cause.
So,
that's what endpoints are.
It's, it's nothing, but it's a specification of all the pods
that that particular service has identified based
on the selectors and the labels set on those pods.
-: Okay? So in this case,
this particular service has just one endpoint.
So we're gonna select one here.
Okay? The next question is, how many deployments exist
on the system now in the current default name space?
So let's
identify.
Boy, there's just one deployment so we're gonna select one.
Okay? So the next question is
what is the image used to create the pods in the deployment?
So we're gonna look
at the deployment in a bit more detail
and see the images code cloud slash simple web app red.
So that's this one.
Okay. Are you able to access the web app UI?
Try accessing the web application UI using the tab
at the top.
So, there's the link here and clicking on it
we see that it gives us a bad gateway error.
So the answer is no
we are not able to access the web app UI.
So, and that's really because there's no service, right?
So we, we have to create a new service to access the web
web application using the service definition dot yamo file.
So there is a service definition dot yamo file here
and we look at it.
So this is basically a kind
of a file with the basic framework to create a service.
So we'll,
we'll use that
and update the details that are given here, right?
So we're gonna set it, give it a name
so the node port and all the different ports,
also specify the selector.
Now if you're not sure about, you know
getting this framework, you could go
to the Kubernetes documentation pages,
search for service and select service,
and here you kind of get a sample that you can then copy
and use.
So we will talk about imperative ways
for commands to create service in, in the upcoming lectures.
For now, let's just go with this.
So the name is web app service.
Type is Node port.
Target port is 8080.
Port is 8080.
North port is 30080,
and the selector name is Simple Web App.
(typing)
Okay, let's create
(typing)
that service.
Okay, that's done.
Let's check.
Yeah, let's try to access this now.
Okay, so that's working.
So, as I said,
in the upcoming lectures,
there is a section where we talk about imperative commands
and we'll discuss how we can create a service.
So there are different ways of creating a service
and we'll discuss about that when we get there.
For now, that's the end of this lab.

--- Namespaces ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we will discuss about namespaces in Kubernetes.
Let us begin with an analogy.
There are two boys named Mark to differentiate them from each other.
We call them by their last names, Smith and Williams.
They come from different houses, of course, the Smiths and the Williams.
There are other members in the house.
The individuals within the house address each other simply by their first names.
For example, the father addresses Mark simply as Mark.
However, if the father wishes to address the mark in the other house, he would use the full name.
Someone outside of these houses would also use the full name to refer to the boys or anyone within these
houses.
Each of these houses have their own set of rules that defines who does what.
Each of these houses have their own set of resources that they can consume.
Now let's get back to Kubernetes.
These houses correspond to namespaces in Kubernetes.
So far in this course, we've created objects such as pods, deployments, and services in our cluster.
Whatever we have been doing, we have been doing within a namespace.
We were inside a house all this while.
This namespace is known as the default namespace, and it is created automatically by Kubernetes.
When the cluster is first set up, Kubernetes creates a set of pods and services for its internal purpose,
such as those required by the networking solution, the DNS service, etc. to isolate these from the
user and to prevent you from accidentally deleting or modifying these services, Kubernetes creates
them under another namespace created at cluster startup Dub named kube system.
A third namespace created by Kubernetes automatically is called kube public.
This is where resources that should be made available to all users are created.
If your environment is small or you're learning and playing around with a small cluster, you shouldn't
really have to worry about namespaces.
You could continue to work in the default namespace.
However, as of when you grow and use a Kubernetes cluster for enterprise or production purposes, you
may want to consider the use of namespaces.
You can create your own namespaces as well.
For example, if you wanted to use the same cluster for both dev and production environment, but at
the same time isolate the resources between them, you can create a different namespace for each of
them.
That way, while working in the dev environment, you don't accidentally modify resources in production.
Each of these namespaces can have its own set of policies that define who can do what.
You can also assign quota of resources to each of these namespaces.
That way, each namespace is guaranteed a certain amount and does not use more than its allowed limit.
Going back to the default namespace that we have been working on, just like how the members within
a house refer to each other by their first names, the resources within a namespace can refer to each
other simply by their names.
In this case, the webapp pod can reach the DB service simply using the hostname db service.
If required, the webapp pod can reach a service in another namespace as well.
For this, you must append the name of the namespace to the name of the service.
For example, for the web pod in the default namespace to connect to the database in the dev environment
or namespace, use the service name dot namespace svc cluster dot local format that would be DB service,
dot dev, dot svc cluster local.
You're able to do this because when the service is created, a DNS entry is added automatically in this
format.
Looking closely at the DNS name of the service, the last part, cluster dot local, is the default
domain name of the Kubernetes cluster.
SVC is the subdomain for service, followed by the namespace and then the name of the service itself.
Let us now look at some of the operational aspects of namespaces.
Let us start with a kube control commands.
For example, this command is used to list all the pods, but it only lists the pods in the default
namespace.
To list pods in another namespace, use the namespace option in the command along with the name of the
namespace, in this case Kube system.
Here I have a Pod definition file.
When you create a pod using this file, the pod is created in the default namespace.
To create the pod in another namespace, use the namespace option.
If you want to make sure that this pod gets created in the dev environment all the time, even if you
don't specify the namespace in the command line, you can move the namespace definition into the pod
definition file like this.
Under the metadata section, this is a good way to ensure your resources are always created in the same
namespace.
So how do you create a new namespace?
Like any other object, use a namespace definition file.
The API version is v1, kind is namespace, and under metadata specify the name.
In this case, dev.
Run the cube control create command to create the namespace.
Another way to create a namespace is by simply running the command cube control create namespace followed
by the name of the namespace.
Now say we are working in three namespaces, as we discussed before.
By default we are in the default namespace, which is why we can see the resources inside the default
namespace using the kube control get pods command.
And to view those in the dev namespace, we have to use the namespace option.
But what if we want to switch to the dev namespace permanently, so that we don't have to specify the
namespace option anymore?
Well, in that case, use the kube control config command to set the namespace in the current context
to dev.
You can then simply run the kube control get pods command without the namespace option to list pods
in the dev environment, but you will need to specify the option for other environments such as default
or prod.
Similarly, you can switch to the prod namespace the same way.
Finally, to view pods in all namespaces, use the all namespaces option in the command.
This will list all the pods in all of the namespaces, taking a closer look at the command.
This command first identifies the current context and then sets the namespace to the desired one for
that current context.
Well, contexts are used to manage multiple clusters and multiple environments from the same management
system.
It is a totally separate topic to discuss and requires its own lecture, so we will discuss context
in another lecture.
To limit resources in a namespace, create a resource quota to create one.
Start with a definition file for resource quota.
Specify the namespace for which you want to create the quota and then under spec provide your limits
such as ten pods, ten CPU units, ten GB bytes of memory, etc..
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Coding exercises section and practice working with namespaces and I will see you in
the next lecture.

--- Lab - Namespaces ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Namespaces (optional) ---

-: Okay, in this video we will go
over the solution for the lab on name spaces.
Okay, so the first question is
how many name spaces exist on the system?
For this, we run the kubectl get name spaces command.
You could also run the kubectl get NS command.
That's the short form for name spaces.
Okay, so the question is
to identify the number of name spaces.
So you have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.
So there are 10 name spaces.
Okay, the next question is how many pods exist
in the research name space?
So to look at the pods we know that we run
the kubectl get pods command.
But to look into a particular name space
we specify the name space option.
And the name space we got to look to is research.
So that's the research name space.
So there are two pods.
Another way to do this
if you don't wanna type the full option
is to just use the dash N and,
that's two.
Okay, so the next question is create a pod
in the finance name space using the spec Q and below.
So we know that to create a pod,
we run the kubectl run command.
Then we put the name, which happens to be Redis
and the image is Redis as well.
But we don't want to create it in the default name space.
So if I run this command, it's going to create the pod
in the default name space, but we wanna create it
in the finance name space.
So you've got to use the name space option
and then specify finance.
Okay and then we run the, yeah, the pod command,
again in the finance name space to make sure
that the pod is created.
Yep.
Okay, so the next question is,
which name space has the blue pod in it?
So we know that running the get NS command lists
all the name spaces.
And one thing we could do is just go through each name space
as we did here and identify and look for that pod.
Or another option is we do have a command called
kubectl get pods dash, dash all name spaces.
And this lists the pods in all name space.
So you have the name space here and you have the pods here.
And from here we can identify
the blue pod and it's in the marketing name space.
Another option is, instead of typing in all name spaces
we just do a dash capital A.
And that also gives you the same output.
So blue is in the marketing name space.
Okay, so the blue application is available for us to access
and it can be accessed using the link and by your terminal.
So let's click on that.
So this is the blue application and
it's a simple like web application that can be used
for connectivity tests, really nothing.
So let's click on, okay, and the question is
what DNS name should the blue application use to
access the database DB service in its own name space?
So if we run the kubectl get pods command
in the marketing name space
we see that it has the blue application,
there's a Redis DB
but I believe there's also
there's a service called DB service
within the same name space.
So how does the blue application access the DB service?
So we've learned that if it's within the same name space
an application can access another service,
just by using its name.
So we can test it in this interface.
So it's DB service and the port number is 6379.
So that's where it is.
Let's click on test, and that's success.
So you could, we could just refer
to it as DB service if it's within your own name space.
Now the next question is
what DNS name should the blue application use to
access the database DB service in the DEV name space?
So there's another name space called DEV
and there's a service there too.
So there are two services by the name DB service.
One is in the marketing and the other is
in the other is in the DEV name space.
So an application blue
in the marketing name space can access the application
or service in the DEV namespace.
But for that you've got to use the full address
of that service.
That includes the namespace service.
So that's DB service dot DEV that's the name space.
And then you have SVC dot cluster dot local
and we can try that here.
So DEV is a name space.
SVC dot cluster dot local click on test.
That's correct.
So let's select that.
Yep, and that's the correct answer, right?
That's the end of the lab.

--- Imperative vs Declarative ---

1
In this lecture, we will discuss
2
about imperative and declarative approaches in Kubernetes.
3
Towards the end of this lecture,
4
we will talk about some tips
5
that you can use in the exam.
6
So far, we have seen different ways of creating
7
and managing objects in Kubernetes.
8
We created objects directly by running commands
9
as well as using object configuration files.
10
Now, in the Infrastructure as Code world,
11
there are different approaches in managing
12
the infrastructure, and they're classified into imperative
13
and declarative approaches.
14
Let's understand these with an analogy.
15
Let's say you wanna visit a friend's house
16
located at Street B.
17
Now, in the past, you would hire a taxi
18
and give step-by-step instructions to the driver
19
on how to reach the destination,
20
like take right to street B,
21
then take left to go to street C,
22
and then take another left, and then right to go to Street D
23
and stop at the house.
24
Specifying what to do
25
and how to do more importantly, is the imperative approach.
26
On the other hand, today when you book a cab, say
27
through Uber, you just specify the final destination,
28
like drive to Tom's house,
29
and this is the declarative approach.
30
In this case, we're not giving step-by-step instructions.
31
Instead, we're just specifying the final destination.
32
We're declaring the final destination,
33
and the system figures out the right path
34
to reach the destination.
35
Specifying what to do,
36
not how to do is the declarative approach.
37
So what's that got to do with what we are learning?
38
In the Infrastructure as Code world,
39
an example of an imperative approach
40
of provisioning infrastructure would be a set
41
of instructions written step by step,
42
such as provisioning a VM named a web server,
43
installing the Nginx software on it,
44
editing configuration file to use port 8080
45
and setting the path to web files, downloading source code
46
of repositories from Git,
47
and finally starting the Nginx server.
48
So here we're saying what is required
49
and also how to get things done.
50
In the declarative approach, we declare our requirements.
51
For instance, all we say is that we need a VM
52
by the name Web Server with the internet software on it,
53
with a port set to 8080
54
and the path to the web files defined
55
and where the source code of the application is stored,
56
and everything that's needed to be done
57
to get this infrastructure in in place is done
58
by the system or the software.
59
You don't have to provide step-by-step instructions.
60
Orchestration tools like Ansible, Puppet or Chef
61
or Terraform fall into this category.
62
In the imperative approach,
63
what happens if the first time only half
64
of the steps were executed?
65
What happens if you provide the same set
66
of instructions again to complete the remaining steps?
67
To handle such situations,
68
there will be many additional steps involved, such as checks
69
to see if something already exists
70
and taking an action based on the results of that check.
71
For instance, while provisioning a VM,
72
what would happen if a VM
73
by the name Web Server already exists?
74
The same goes with creating a database or importing data.
75
Should it fail or should it continue
76
since the VM is already there?
77
What if we decide to upgrade the version of software
78
to say Nginx 1.18 in the future?
79
It should be as simple
80
as updating the version of Nginx in the configuration file,
81
and the system should take care of the rest.
82
Ideally, the system should be intelligent enough to know
83
what has already been done
84
and apply the necessary changes only.
85
That's the declarative way of doing things.
86
In the Kubernetes world, the imperative way
87
of managing infrastructure is using commands
88
like the kubectl run command to create a pod,
89
the kubectl create deployment command
90
to create a deployment, the kubectl expose command
91
to create a service to expose a deployment,
92
and the kubectl edit command may be used
93
to edit an existing object.
94
For scaling a deployment or replica set,
95
use the kubectl scale command,
96
and updating the image on a deployment,
97
we use the kubectl set image command.
98
Now, we have also used object configuration files
99
to manage objects
100
such as creating an object
101
using the kubectl create -f command with the F option
102
to specify the object configuration file,
103
and editing an object using the kubectl, replace command
104
and deleting an object using the kubectl delete command.
105
All of these are imperative approaches
106
to managing objects in Kubernetes.
107
We're saying exactly how to bring the infrastructure
108
to our needs by creating, updating or deleting objects.
109
The declarative approach would be to create a set of files
110
that defines the expected state of the applications
111
and services on a Kubernetes cluster,
112
and with a single kubectl apply command,
113
Kubernetes should be able to read the configuration files
114
and decide by itself what needs to be done
115
to bring the infrastructure to the expected state.
116
So in the declarative approach,
117
you will run the kubectl apply command for creating,
118
updating or deleting an object.
119
The apply command will look at the existing configuration
120
and figure out what changes need to be made to the system.
121
So let's look at these in a bit more detail.
122
Now, within the imperative approach, there are two ways.
123
The first is using imperative commands such as the run,
124
create or expose commands to create new objects
125
and the edit, scale and set commands
126
to update existing objects.
127
Now, these commands help in quickly creating
128
or modifying objects as we don't have to deal
129
with YAML files.
130
And these are helpful during the certification exams.
131
However, there are limited in functionality
132
and will require forming long
133
and complex commands for advanced use cases
134
such as creating a multi-container pod or deployment.
135
Secondly, these commands are run once and forgotten.
136
They're only available in the session history of the user
137
who ran these commands,
138
so it's hard for another person to figure out
139
how these objects were created.
140
So it is hard to keep track of.
141
And so it's difficult to work with these commands in large
142
or complex environments.
143
And that's where managing objects
144
with object configuration files can help.
145
Creating object definition files or configuration files
146
or manifest files, as it's also called,
147
can help us write down exactly what we need the object
148
to look like in a YAML format
149
and use the kubectl create command to create the object.
150
We now have the YAML file with us always,
151
and it can be saved in a code repository like Git.
152
We can put together a change review
153
and approval process around these files
154
so that a change made is reviewed and approved
155
before it is applied to a production environment.
156
In the future, if a change is to be made, for instance,
157
editing the image name to another version,
158
there are different ways to go about it.
159
One way is to use the kubectl edit command
160
and specify the object name.
161
So when this command is run,
162
it opens a YAML definition file similar to the one you used
163
to create the object,
164
but with some additional fields such as the status fields
165
that you see here, which are used
166
to store the status of the pod.
167
This is not the file you used to create the object.
168
This is a similar pod definition file
169
within the Kubernetes memory.
170
You can make changes to this file and save and quit,
171
and those changes will be applied to the live object.
172
However, note that there is a difference
173
between the live object
174
and the definition file that you have locally.
175
The change you made using the kubectl edit command
176
is not really recorded anywhere.
177
After the change is applied, you're only left
178
with your local definition file,
179
which in fact has the old image name in it.
180
In the future, say you
181
or a teammate decide to make a change to this object
182
unaware that a change was made
183
using the kubectl edit command,
184
when the new change is applied, the previous change
185
to the image is lost.
186
So you can use the kubectl edit command
187
if you are making a change
188
and you're sure that you're not going
189
to rely on the object configuration file in the future.
190
A better approach to that is to first edit the local version
191
of the object configuration file with the required changes.
192
That is by updating image name here,
193
and then running the kubectl replace command
194
to update the object.
195
This way, going forward, the changes made are recorded
196
and can be tracked as part of the change review process.
197
So at times you may want to completely delete
198
and recreate objects.
199
In such cases, you may run the same command,
200
but with the force option like this.
201
Now, this is still the imperative approach
202
because you're still instructed Kubernetes how to create
203
or update these objects.
204
First, you run the kubectl create command
205
to create the object, and then you run the replace command
206
to replace the object or delete command
207
to delete the object.
208
And what if you run the create command
209
if the object already exists?
210
Well, then it would fail
211
with an error that says the pod already exists.
212
When you update an object, you should always make sure
213
that the object exists first
214
before running the replace command.
215
If an object does not exist, the replace command fails
216
with an error message.
217
So the imperative approach is very taxing for you
218
as an administrator as you must always be aware
219
of the current configurations
220
and perform checks to make sure that things are in place
221
before making a change.
222
The declarative approach is where you use
223
the same object configuration files
224
that we've been working on, but instead of the create
225
or replace commands, we use the kubectl apply command
226
to manage objects.
227
The kubectl apply command is intelligent enough
228
to create an object if it doesn't already exist.
229
If there are multiple object configuration files
230
as you would usually, then you may specify a directory
231
as the path instead of a single file.
232
That way, all the objects are created at once.
233
Now, when changes are to be made,
234
we simply update the object configuration file
235
and run the kubectl apply command again,
236
and this time it knows that the object exists,
237
and so it only updates the object with the new changes.
238
So it never really throws an error
239
that says the object already exists
240
or the updates cannot be applied.
241
It'll always figure out the right approach
242
to updating the object.
243
So going forward, any changes made on the application,
244
whether they're updating images
245
or fields of existing configuration files
246
or adding new configuration files altogether
247
for new objects, all we do is simply update
248
our local directory with the changes,
249
and then the kubectl apply command take care of the rest.
250
So we will discuss more
251
about how the kubectl apply command works exactly
252
in the backend in the next lecture.
253
For now, let me give you some tips as part of the exam.
254
So from an exam perspective,
255
you could use the imperative approach to save time
256
as much as possible.
257
For example, if a question is to just create a pod
258
or a deployment with a given image, then one
259
of these imperative commands
260
can help you achieve that quickly.
261
So it's important to practice the imperative commands.
262
If you need to edit a property of an existing object,
263
then using the kubectl edit command
264
may be the quickest way, right?
265
If you have a complex requirement for, say, for example,
266
that requires multiple containers, environment variables,
267
commands, init containers, et cetera,
268
then using an object configuration file
269
to create the object would be preferred.
270
This way, if you see that you made a mistake,
271
you can easily update the file and apply it again,
272
and using the kubectl apply command in that case
273
would be a better option.
274
So for more details on the different approaches
275
to managing a Kubernetes cluster, get yourself familiarized
276
with the Kubernetes documentation pages,
277
and in the upcoming lab exercises, try
278
to use imperative approach in solving questions.
279
Well, I'll see you in the next lecture.

--- Certification Tips - Imperative Commands with Kubectl ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Kubectl Explain Command ---

Let us now look at kubectl explain command.
So there is a lot you can learn about resources and fields without ever leaving the terminal.
To list all resources you can simply run kubectl api resources command.
This is especially useful when you can't find a resource on the documentation pages.
So if you ever forget a resource name or its short name, or you're not sure of the underlying version
of the API such as V1 or is it v1?
Or if you are not sure the exact case of the resource name to be used while creating a definition file,
you can use the kubectl API resource command.
Once you identify the resource name from the list and you need more information about the resource fields
and types under it, you can then run the kubectl explain command.
Provide the resource name that you'd like to be explained in this case, using pods.
Lists all top level fields in pods being the API version kind, metadata, spec and status, and you
can see the type of each field.
So the API version is string and also the description of what it does.
But as you can see, this is not a comprehensive list of all fields and subfields.
It only lists the top level items.
To go deeper, run the same command but with a field to the command.
And like this.
So you would add dot spec to the end of the command and this would list the subfields within it.
But this again lists the subproperties of parent property that you've mentioned.
It's still not comprehensive.
So to list all fields in the way that you would put them in a YAML file, use the recursive flag like
this.
It now outputs the entire comprehensive list of fields that's available on that resource.
And it's very easy now to create YAML files out of this.

--- Lab - Imperative Commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Imperative Commands (optional) ---

-: Okay, in this video we will go
over the practice test for imperative commands.
So in this lab we'll get hands
on practice with creating Kubernetes objects imperatively.
And this is more for, more to help with your exams.
So you must be very familiar with imperative commands
while you're preparing for the exam.
Okay, so let's, let's proceed.
So the first task is to deploy a pod named NGINX pod
using the NGINX Alpine image.
So that we've done before, it's easy.
So it is KUBECTL RUN to create a pod
and the name is NGINX Pod,
and the image is NGINX Alpine.
So check it.
Okay, That's correct.
The next one, deploy a Redis pod
using the Redis alpine image,
with the labels set to tier db.
So that's the similar task but with an additional field.
So if you look at KUBECTL RUN command
let's see if there's an option to specify the labels.
So if you look at this, there are some examples here.
This is what we just did.
And here you have an option to specify the labels.
So dash dash labels equals
and then here's the key value pairs.
And you can have multiple labels.
You can specify multiple labels separated by a comma.
So we're gonna use that approach.
So let's run the KUBECTL RUN command.
The name, the pod is Redis
image is Redis Alpine
and we're gonna pass on labels.
And then the label is tier equals db.
Okay, so that's good.
So the next one is to create a service called Redis service
to expose the Redis application within the cluster
on board 6379.
So the service name has to be Redis service.
The type is cluster IP, and the port is 6379.
So for this, we could run the KUBECTL CREATE
service command.
Let's look at the help.
So if it is, what's in the cluster then it's cluster IP.
So we could run the cluster IP
KUBECTL CREATE SERVICE
cluster IP.
Let's look at the help.
And then you specify the name
of the service and the port here,
which happens to be 6379.
So one of the thing here is
that we want to expose the Redis application, right?
So with this command, there's no way to specify a selector.
This is something that we, we discussed
in this lecture, right?
So if you look at this
there are three ways to create a service.
So this is to create a service named Redis service
of cluster IP.
And we could do a KUBECTL CREATE SERVICE command
but then you cannot really specify the selectors, right?
Or you could do a KUBECTL EXPOSE command.
So ideally for most, for most use cases
you could use the KUBECTL EXPOSE command and
because it will automatically detect the labels
and then use that as selectors for the service, right?
So that's, that's the most ideal.
The only time you could
you should use KUBECTL CREATE SERVICE is when
you need to specify a particular node port, right?
So here you have an example of creating a node port service.
There are two ways to do it
with the EXPOSE command and the CREATE SERVICE command.
But as of this recording
there is no way to specify a node port in the command.
So you have to export that
to a YAML file and edit it for creating it.
Or if you go the other approach, then there's
you cannot specify the selector.
So that's, that's a challenge here.
So here what we are going to do is we're going
to use the EXPOSE command.
If you look at the help, these are some examples.
So we're gonna specify, EXPOSE
and the application is Redis.
So we don't know if it's a pod or deployment.
So let's find that out first.
So it's, it's a pod.
So it's a Redis pod.
So we're gonna do KUBECTL EXPOSE instead of RC
we're gonna do a pod or a PO.
And then the name, this, I remember that this is the name
of the pod and not the service that we wanna create.
So the pod has to be Redis.
And this should be a way to specify the name
of the service, which is using name.
So we're gonna use name and specify it as ready service.
And then of course we also have to specify the port.
And the port is this one, which is 6379.
Okay?
So that's, that's what we are going to do.
KUBECTL EXPOSE Redis,
and then we gonna'
specify the port, which is 6379.
You also need to specify a name that will
be Redis service.
Okay?
I missed specifying pod.
So that in, let's,
let's check it out.
Service Redis, so it is Redis service.
So that's the Redis service.
Let's see if it's got the right labels and selectors,
and also the endpoint.
The labels is tier equals db.
So it's automatically picked that up and the endpoints
indicates that it's automatically discovered the pod.
So let's check.
Okay, that's good.
Okay, the next one is to create a deployment
named web app using the image with three replicas.
So we're going to do KUBECTL
READ DEPLOYMENT command
and the name of the deployment is web app
image is, it's gonna copy and paste.
And then replicas is,
is three.
Oops, I forgot to specify the dashes.
Yep,
we're going to check.
Okay, so there are,
there's zero of three ready?
Okay, three of three ready.
Okay.
So the next one is to create a new pod
called Custom NGINX using the NGINX image
and expose it on container port 8080.
So we know that to create a pod,
we have to KUBECTL RUN command
and the name of the pod is Custom NGINX.
And then the image is NGINX and
we have to expose it on container port 8080.
So we're talking about specifying the port on the container.
So we just use port and specify the port number.
We're not really talking
about exposing the port by creating a service.
This is just specifying what port the container
runs the service on.
And you can do that with the port option.
Okay, let's check our work.
That's correct.
Okay the next one is to create a new namespace
called Dev NS.
So that's pretty easy and straightforward.
KUBECTL CREATE
namespace Dev NS.
Okay, the next one is to create a new deployment
called Redis deploy in the Dev NS namespace.
So we're gonna do KUBECTL CREATE DEPLOYMENT and it's
the name is Redis deploy.
The image is Redis,
replicas has two.
So you could do equals two or space two
either of that work.
And then the name space is Dev NS.
So let's make sure that worked as expected.
So we have the Redis deploy within the Dev NS namespace
and it has two replicas.
Let's check our work.
Okay?
That's correct.
Okay, so the final question is to create a pod
called ACTPD using the image ACTPD Alpine
in the default namespace and then create a service
of type cluster IP by the same name.
The target port for the service should be 80.
So try to do this with as few steps as possible.
So there are two ways of doing this.
One is you could for first do a KUBECTL RUN command
and create the, the pod.
And then we know
that we could use the KUBECTL EXPOSE command to
create a service, but we can actually combine them both
in the RUN command itself.
So that's done using, so let's first create a pod.
So we do a KUBECTL RUN httpd,
that's the name of the pod.
And the image is supposed to be ACTPD Alpine.
And then we have, it's the default name space
so we don't have to specify the name space.
And the target port is 80.
And what we're asked to do is also create a service.
One of the options for the wrong command,
you look to help is the exposed option.
So if you look at, if you look right here
it has the exposed option and it's by defaults at default.
So if it's such to true
create a cluster IP service associated with the pod
and it requires the port field.
So it's automatically going to create a service
with the cluster IP type
and it's going to expose the pod internally.
So yeah,
so that's, so that's what we have to do.
So we're going to, there's the same command
but we're going to add the
expose equals true option to the end of it.
So it's, it is created a pod and a service.
Let's just verify that.
So we have the ACTPD pod,
we have the ACTPD service
and if we look at this service
in more detail
we see that it is got, the selector is run equal ACTPD
and then it also has the end point discovered.
Okay.
So that's, that's correct.
Right?
So that's the, the end of this lab.

--- Kubectl Apply Command ---

In this lecture we will understand more about how the kubectl apply command works.
In the previous lecture, we saw how a kubectl apply command can be used to manage objects in a declarative
way.
In this lecture, we will see a bit more about how the command works.
Internally, the apply command takes into consideration the local configuration file, a live object
definition on Kubernetes, and the last applied configuration before making a decision on what changes
are to be made.
So when you run the apply command, if the object does not already exist, the object is created.
When the object is created, an object configuration similar to what we created locally is created within
Kubernetes, but with additional fields to store status of the object.
This is the live configuration of the object on the Kubernetes cluster.
This is how Kubernetes internally stores information about an object, no matter what approach you use
to create the object, but when you use the kubectl apply command to create an object, it does something
a bit more.
The YAML version of the local object configuration file we wrote is converted to a JSON format, and
it is then stored as the last applied configuration going forward for any updates to the object.
All the three are compared to identify what changes are to be made on the live object.
For example, say when the nginx image is updated to 1.19 in our local file and we run the kubectl apply
command.
This value is compared with the value in the live configuration, and if there is a difference, the
live configuration is updated with the new value.
After any change, the last applied JSON format is always updated to the latest so that it's always
up to date.
So why do we then really need the last applied configuration?
Right.
So if a field was deleted say for example, the type label was deleted.
And now when we run the kubectl apply command, we see that the last applied configuration had a label,
but it's not present in the local configuration.
This means that the field needs to be removed from the live configuration.
So if a field was present in the live configuration and not present in the local or the last applied
configuration, then it will be left as is.
But if a field is missing from the local file and it is present in the last applied configuration,
so that means that in the previous step or whenever the last time we run the kubectl apply command,
that particular field was there and it is now being removed.
So the last applied configuration helps us figure out what fields have been removed from the local file.
Right.
So that field is then removed from the actual live configuration.
What we just discussed is available for your reference in detail in the Kubernetes document pages.
So follow this link to view that.
Okay.
So we saw the three sets of files, and we know that the local file is what's stored on our local system.
The live object configuration is in the Kubernetes memory.
But where is this JSON file that has the last applied configuration stored?
Well, it's stored on the live object configuration on the Kubernetes cluster itself as an annotation
named a last applied configuration.
So remember that this is only done when you use the apply command.
The create or replace commands do not store the last applied configuration like this.
So you must bear in mind not to mix the imperative and declarative approaches while managing the Kubernetes
objects.
So once you use the apply command going forward, whenever a change is made, the apply command compares
all three sections the local pod definition file, the live object configuration, and the last applied
configuration stored within the live object configuration file for deciding what changes are to be made
to the live configuration, similar to what we saw in the previous slide.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
I will see you in the next.

--- Here's some inspiration to keep going ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- A Quick Reminder ---

(bright music)
-: Hey, so here is a quick reminder,
and I hope you don't mind me jumping in like this.
I wanted to take a moment to remind you
about the importance of staying focused
on the labs and videos that are provided in this course.
Now, I understand that you may be eager
to create your own local setup to practice,
but I recommend that you resist
that urge until you have completed the course.
Our labs and videos are designed
to give you a seamless learning experience
that will help you gain the most out of the course
in the time that you have available.
By sticking to the labs and videos provided in the course,
you can minimize distractions and interruptions and ensure
that you have a clear path from start to finish.
And this will help you stay focused on your learning goals
and make the most of your time with us.
Rest assured, we will provide you
with resources to create your own local setup
at the appropriate time in the course.
For now, let's focus on the labs
so you can gain the knowledge
and skills you need to succeed.
Thank you for choosing our course,
thank you for choosing KodeKloud, and we look forward
to helping you achieve your learning goals.
(graphic blips)

--- Reference Notes for lectures and labs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Scheduling - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello, my name is (indistinct)
and we are going through
the certified Kubernetes Administrator's course.
In this section,
we look at various concepts
related to scheduling in Kubernetes.
We saw how to install
and configure a scheduler briefly in the previous section.
Here we take a closer look
at the various options available for customizing
and configuring the way the scheduler behaves
through a set of fun and challenging practice exercises.
Now I'm going to reran some topics a little bit
to improve the flow.
We will start with manual scheduling
and see how you can schedule a pod manually
we then look at demon sets, labels and selectors,
and how resource requests
and limits play a role in scheduling.
We also see how to configure multiple schedulers
and how to view the scheduler events.
Well, let's get started
and I hope you enjoy the lectures and practice tests.

--- Manual Scheduling ---

In this lecture, we look at the different ways of manually scheduling a pod on a node.
What do you do when you do not have a scheduler in your cluster?
You probably do not want to rely on the built in scheduler and instead want to schedule the pods yourself.
So how exactly does a scheduler work in the backend?
Let's start with a simple pod definition file.
Every pod has a field called node name that by default is not set.
You don't typically specify this field when you create the pod manifest file.
Kubernetes adds it automatically.
The scheduler goes through all the pods and looks for those that do not have this property set.
Those are the candidates for scheduling.
It then identifies the right node for the pod by running the scheduling algorithm.
Once identified, it schedules the pod on the node by setting the node name property to the name of
the node by creating a binding object.
So if there is no scheduler to monitor and schedule pods onto nodes, what happens?
The pods continue to be in a pending state.
So what can you do about it?
You can manually assign pods to nodes yourself.
Well, without a scheduler, the easiest way to schedule a pod is to simply set the node name field
to the name of the node in your pod specification file while creating the pod.
The pod then gets assigned to the specified node.
You can only specify the node name at creation time.
What if the pod is already created and you want to assign the pod to a node?
Kubernetes won't allow you to modify the node name property of a pod.
So another way to assign a node to an existing pod is to create a binding object and send a Post request
to the pods binding API, thus mimicking what the actual scheduler does in the binding object.
You specify a target node with the name of the node, then send a Post request to the pods binding API
with the data set to the binding object in a JSON format.
So you must convert the YAML file into its equivalent JSON form.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice test and practice manually scheduling pods on nodes.

--- Lab- Manual Scheduling ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Manual Scheduling (optional) ---

-: Okay in this video, we're gonna walk
over the practice test on manual scheduling.
So the question is a pod definition file engine x.yaml
is given and you have to create a pod.
So let's go over this, but before that
let's just quickly explore the environment.
So if you're on the get nodes command
we see that it's a two node cluster.
So that's what we're working with now.
And there is a file called engine x.yaml.
And by the looks of it
it's just a normal pod definition file
with the name set to engine X
and the image set to engine X as well.
So let's go ahead and create this.
Okay. and let's click on check.
And so the goal of this exercise is just to create the pod
you don't have to check the status for now
let's go to the next question.
So what is the status of the created pod?
So we see that it's in a pending state.
So that's the answer, it's an a pending state.
Okay so why is the pod in a pending state?
So inspect the environment for various Kubernetes
control plane components.
So one thing that we have learned is
that's the scheduler that schedules the pod.
So if the pod's status is in pending,
let's take a closer look at the pod.
And we don't see any additional details
other than the fact that it's in a pending state.
So that basically means the scheduler
has not done its job of scheduling the pod on a node.
You see if you look at it here
the node field is set to none.
So let's look at the scheduler.
So the scheduler runs as a pod
in the cube system name space.
And we see that you have the API server,
the controller manager, the proxy, the ETCD control plane,
but there is no scheduler running.
So that could be the reason why this pod is not running
and it's in a pending state.
So we're gonna say that there's no scheduler present.
Okay, so now we have to manually schedule the pod
on node zero one.
Now we've already created the pod, but it's not assigned
to any node.
And one thing that we've learned in the previous lecture
is that we can manually schedule the pod.
So we're gonna edit the engine X study on the file.
And I'm going to add a node name property here
and we'll set that to node zero one.
Okay. and then we, now we've got to recreate the pod.
So we have to delete it and recreate it.
One way to do that is just to, you know,
delete the pod and recreate it.
But we can also just use the replace command
if we need to do that just in a single command.
So we're gonna do a replace force
so that's going to delete the pod and then recreate it.
And then we're gonna specify the file.
So that first, yeah the pod is deleted
and then it's just replaced.
So let's look at the status of the pod now.
You see that it's in a container creating state.
Now if you don't want to run the same command
multiple times to check the status you could just
add the watch option.
And what it's gonna do is it's going to continue to
monitor that pod and it's gonna update the status
if something changes.
So it's already in the running state, so we're good.
Okay, next.
Okay, now schedule the same pod on the control plane node.
Right, so again, that's pretty simple.
If we go in and make the same change
so this is just for additional practice control plane
and then we are going to have to do the same thing.
Now remember that we cannot move a running pod
from one node to another, right?
So ultimately a pod is actually a container
which is basically another process running on a system.
So you cannot move a running process as is
from one system to another.
So there is no way to basically move pods
from systems to systems.
You can only delete pods from one system or one node
and then recreate it on another.
So that was a question that I got from a student.
So let's do the replace again
and remember to use a force.
Be sure you wanna delete and recreate it
and wait for it to terminate.
Now again, if you look at this,
it's taking a while to delete.
So that's not a problem with Kubernetes
or with our lab environment.
It's normal for that to happen.
When you terminate or when you delete a pod
what happens is in the back end
it has to go in and terminate the process that's running.
In this case, the is the engine X process.
So it basically sends a kill signal to the process.
And the process, depending on what process is running
and the way that it handles kill signals
it might take some time for it to process that request
and actually kill, or you know gracefully shut down, right?
So that's really the the reason why it takes a few seconds
when you delete certain pods.
And that's why, that's what happened this time.
So it's not because there's an issue with either Kubernetes
or the node or the lab environment.
That's just how it works.
Okay, so let's now check the pod, we can check.
See it's running,
if you do a wide option
then we'll get to see on which node it is scheduled
so we can see that it's on the control plane node.
Okay.
All right, and that's the end of this lab.

--- Labels and Selectors ---

What do we know about labels and selectors already?
Labels and selectors are a standard method to group things together.
Say you have a set of different species.
A user wants to be able to filter them based on different criteria, such as based on their class or
kind, if they are domestic or wild, or say by their color and not just group, you want to be able
to filter them based on a criteria such as all green animals or with multiple criteria such as everything
green that is also a bird.
Whatever that classification may be, you need the ability to group things together and filter them
based on your needs.
And the best way to do that is with labels.
Labels are properties attached to each item, so you add properties to each item for their class.
Kind and color selectors help you filter these items.
For example, when you say class equals mammal, we get a list of mammals.
And when you say color equals green, we get the green mammals.
We see labels and selectors used everywhere, such as the keywords you tag to YouTube videos or blogs
that help users filter and find the right content.
We see labels added to items in an online store that help you add different kinds of filters to view
your products.
So how are labels and selectors used in Kubernetes?
We have created a lot of different types of objects in Kubernetes pods, services, replica sets, deployments,
etc. for Kubernetes.
All of these are different objects.
Over time, you may end up having hundreds or thousands of these objects in your cluster.
Then you will need a way to filter and view different objects by different categories, such as to group
objects by their type or view objects by application or by their functionality, whatever it may be.
You can group and select objects using labels and selectors for each object.
Attach labels as per your needs like app, function, etc..
Then, while selecting specify a condition to filter specific objects.
For example, app equals app one.
So how exactly do you specify labels in Kubernetes?
In a Pod definition file under metadata, create a section called labels.
Under that, add the labels in a key value format like this.
You can add as many labels as you like.
Once the pod is created to select the pod with labels, use the Kube control get pods command along
with the selector option and specify the condition like app equals app one.
Now this is one use case of labels and selectors.
Kubernetes objects use labels and selectors internally to connect different objects together.
For example, to create a replica set consisting of three different parts, we first label the part
definition and use selector in a replica set to group the parts in a replica set definition file.
You will see labels defined in two places.
Note that this is an area where beginners tend to make a mistake.
The labels defined under the templates section are the labels configured on the pods.
The labels you see at the top are the labels of the replica set itself.
We're not really concerned about the labels of the replica set for now, because we are trying to get
the replica set to discover the pods.
The labels on the replica set will be used.
If you were to configure some other object to discover the replica set.
In order to connect the replica set to the pods, we configure the selector field under the Replica
set specification to match the labels defined on the pod.
A single label will do if it matches correctly.
However, if you feel there could be other pods parts with the same label, but with a different function.
Then you could specify both the labels to ensure that the right parts are discovered by the replica
set on creation.
If the labels match, the replica set is created successfully.
It works the same for other objects like a service.
When a service is created, it uses the selector defined in the service definition file to match the
labels set on the pods in the replica set definition file.
Finally, let's look at annotations.
While labels and selectors are used to group and select objects, annotations are used to record other
details for informatory purpose.
For example, tool details like name version, build information, etc. or contact details, phone numbers,
email IDs, etc. that may be used for some kind of integration purpose.
Well, that's it for this lecture on labels and selectors and annotations, head over to the Coding
Exercises section and practice working with labels and selectors.

--- Lab - Labels and Selectors ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution : Labels and Selectors : (Optional) ---

-: Hey, in this video, we're gonna walk through
the practice test for labels and selectors.
So, the question is, we have deployed a number of pods,
they are labeled with a tier, ENV and BU
And how many pods exist in the dev environment?
So we have to use selectors.
So first let's do a get pods.
And we see that there are a number of pods.
Now we've got to filter it
and identify the pods that are in the dev environment.
So I'm assuming ENV is for environment.
So that's the label.
And the, so this is the key and this is the value.
So if we have to find pods using the selector
and then we'll say ENV equals dev.
And we see that these are the pods in the dev environment.
So that's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 7 of them.
If you want to find, so now let's say
since there are just seven, it's easy to
for us to just count.
But let's say there are a lot of them there
that now where it becomes difficult to count manually
one thing you could do is just do a word count, right?
So you could do a word count dash L.
Now the problem with this is this also counts
this top line which is the header.
So there's a way to print this without the headers
and that's using the no header's option.
And when you run that
you just get the output without the header.
And then we can do a word count on that.
And that's seven, so seven is the answer here.
Okay, so the next question is how many pods are
in the finance business unit?
So, we saw that the
that label key is the, UA so, for business unit.
And the business unit we are looking at IT finance.
And we'll just use same command for this.
And this time is six.
Okay, and how many objects are in the prod environment
including pause, replica sets, and any other objects?
So let's use the same command and change the labels.
So the environment is broad
and now we are only listing the pods.
So to list all objects
what you could do is give all instead of pods.
So all lists, all the objects in that name space.
So here we have pods, we have surveys
and we have replica sets, right?
So if you count this, that's, let's do a word count.
And so that's number seven.
So there are seven objects.
And then the next question is to identify the pod
which is part of the prod environment, the finance BU
and the the front end tier.
So one that has all of it.
So the environment is prod.
Then we can just add additional labels separated
by a coma will BU equals finance and tier is front end.
Okay, so that happens to be this particular pod, which is
which starts with ZZXDF is this one right here.
Okay, the final question is about, again labels.
So there's a file called replica set definition file
and the request is to create the replica set and
but there's an issue with it, so we've got to fix it.
So let's try creating it.
Okay, and it says the replica set is invalid.
Invalid value selector does not match template labels.
So selector is this and template labels.
So this template and template labels is this.
So the error message is that this does not match this.
Now we know that for replica set to manage the pod
so this is basically the pod definition.
The replica set needs to have these two match
otherwise it won't be able to manage the pod.
So that's the validation error here.
So we're gonna fix this by changing this to the value below.
Save that and let's create pod, sorry, the replica set.
And it's created, let's verify creation.
Yep, that's working.
Okay, so that's the end of this lab.

--- Taints and Tolerations ---

In this lecture, we will discuss about the pod to node relationship and how you can restrict what pods
are placed on what nodes.
The concept of taints and tolerations can be a bit confusing for beginners, so we will try to understand
what they are using an analogy of a bug approaching a person.
Now my apologies in advance, but this is the best I could come up with to prevent the bug from landing
on the person.
We spray the person with repellent spray or a taint as we will call it in this lecture.
The bug is intolerant to the smell, so on approaching the person, the taint applied on the person
throws the bug off.
However, there could be other bugs that are tolerant to this smell, and so the taint doesn't really
affect them and so they end up landing on the person.
So there are two things that decide if a bug can land on a person.
first, the taint on the person, and second the bugs toleration level to that particular taint.
Getting back to Kubernetes, the person is a node and the bugs are pods.
Now taints and tolerations have nothing to do with security or intrusion on the cluster.
Taints and tolerations are used to set restrictions on what pods can be scheduled on a node.
Let us start with a simple cluster with three worker nodes.
The nodes are named one, two, and three.
We also have a set of pods that are to be deployed on these nodes.
Let's call them A, B, C, and D.
When the pods are created, Kubernetes Scheduler tries to place these pods on the worker nodes.
As of now, there are no restrictions or limitations, and as such, the scheduler places the pods across
all the nodes to balance them out equally.
Now let us assume that we have dedicated resources on node one for a particular use case or application.
So we would like only those parts that belong to this application to be placed on node one.
First, we prevent all pods from being placed on the node by placing a taint on the node.
Let's call it blue.
By default, pods have no tolerations, which means unless specified otherwise, none of the pods can
tolerate any taint.
So in this case, none of the pods can be placed on node one, as none of them can tolerate the taint
blue.
This solves half of our requirement.
No unwanted pods are going to be placed on this node.
The other half is to enable certain parts to be placed on this node.
For this we must specify which pods are tolerant to this particular taint.
In our case, we would like to allow only pod D to be placed on this node.
So we add a toleration to pod D.
Pod D is now tolerant to blue.
So when the scheduler tries to place this pod on node one, it goes through node one can now only accept
pods that can tolerate the taint blue.
So with all the chains and tolerations in place, this is how the pods would be scheduled.
The scheduler tries to place pod A on node one, but due to the time it is thrown off and it goes to
node two, the scheduler then tries to place pod B on node one, but again due to the taint, it is
thrown off and is placed on node three, which happens to be the next node.
The scheduler then tries to place pod C to the node one.
It is thrown off again and ends up on node two.
And finally the scheduler tries to place pod D on node one.
Since the pod is tolerant to node one, it goes through.
So remember things are set on nodes and tolerations are set on pods.
So how do you do this?
Use the kube control taint nodes command to taint a node.
Specify the name of the node to taint followed by the taint itself, which is a key value pair.
For example, if you would like to dedicate the node to pods in application blue, then the key value
pair would be app blue.
The taint effect defines what would happen to the pods if they do not tolerate the taint.
There are three taint effects no schedule, which means the pods will not be scheduled on the node,
which is what we have been discussing.
Prefer no schedule, which means the system will try to avoid placing a pod on the node, but that is
not guaranteed.
And third is no execute, which means that new pods will not be scheduled on the node and existing pods
on the node, if any will be evicted if they do not tolerate the taint.
These parts may have been scheduled on the node before the taint was applied to the node.
An example command would be to taint node node one with the key value pair app equals blue and an effect
of no schedule tolerations are added to pods to add a toleration to a pod.
First, pull up the pod definition file in the spec section of the pod definition file.
Add a section called Tolerations.
Move the same values used while creating the taint under this section.
The key is app operator is equal, value is blue and the effect is no schedule.
And remember all of these values need to be encoded in double quotes.
When the pods are now created or updated with the new tolerations, they are either not scheduled on
nodes or evicted from the existing nodes depending on the effect set.
Let us try to understand the no execute change effect in a bit more depth.
In this example we have three nodes running some workload.
We do not have any chains or tolerations at this point, so they are scheduled this way.
We then decided to dedicate node one for a special application, and as such, we taint the node with
the application name and add a toleration to the pod that belongs to the application, which happens
to be pod D in this case.
While tending the node, we set the taint effect to no execute, and as such, once the taint on the
node takes effect, it evicts pod C from the node, which simply means that the pod is killed.
The pod D continues to run on the node as it has a toleration to the tank blew.
Now, going back to our original scenario where we have taints and tolerations configured, remember
taints and tolerations are only meant to restrict nodes from accepting certain paths.
In this case, node one can only accept pod D, but it does not guarantee that pod D will always be
placed on node one, since there are no chains or restrictions applied on the other two nodes.
Pod D may very well be placed on any of the other two nodes, so remember taints and Tolerations does
not tell the pod to go to a particular node.
Instead, it tells the node to only accept pods with certain tolerations.
If your requirement is to restrict a pod to certain nodes, it is achieved through another concept called
as node affinity, which we will discuss in the next lecture.
Finally, while we are on this topic, let us also take a look at an interesting fact.
So far we have only been referring to the worker nodes, but we also have master nodes in the cluster,
which is technically just another node that has all the capabilities of hosting a pod.
Plus it runs all the management software.
Now, I'm not sure if you noticed the scheduler does not schedule any pods on the master node.
Why is that?
When the Kubernetes cluster is first set up, a tent is set on the master node automatically.
That prevents any pods from being scheduled on this node.
You can see this as well as modify this behavior if required.
However, a best practice is to not deploy application workloads on a master server.
To see this taint, run a cube control, describe node command with cube master as the node name and
look for the taint section.
You will see a taint set to not schedule any pods on the master node.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Coding Exercises section and practice working with Taints and Tolerations.

--- Lab - Taints and Tolerations ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Taints and Tolerations (Optional) ---

Instructor: Okay, so let's go over the lab
for practicing taints and tolerations.
So let's start with the first question.
How many nodes exist on the system?
Including the control plane?
So let's look at the number of nodes
and we see that there are two nodes,
control plane and node zero one.
So the answer is two.
Okay, so the next question is,
do any taints exist on node zero one node?
So for that we're gonna have to take a closer look
at node zero one.
So we do a kubectl, describe node, node zero one
and we see taints right here.
And we see that there are none.
So there are no taints on this particular node.
So I'm gonna select, no.
It's going to clear my screen.
Okay, so the next question is to create a taint
on node zero one with key of spray value
of martin and effect of NoSchedule.
So we're gonna continue with the, the silly example
that we used in the lecture
of the spray and martin, and mosquito and B.
So here the task is to create a taint.
So we're gonna do kubectl taint
and let's quickly look at the help.
So the command is kubectl taint, and then nodes
then the name of the node,
and then followed by these values,
which are the key has to be spray,
and then the value is martin.
And then the effect is NoSchedule.
So let's do that.
So it's kubectl paint, node, and it's node zero one,
and then the key is spray
and the value is obtain, and the effect is NoSchedule.
Okay? Okay, let's confirm that.
So we have the spray equals martin
and the NoSchedule effect, right?
So that's, that's done.
So we now have attained on node zero one.
Now the goal is to create a new pod
with the engine X image,
and the pod name as mosquito, right?
So we're gonna do a kubectl run,
and then, that's the pod name. Image equals engine X.
Let's do... Get pods.
And we see that, it's created.
Ignore the, the, the status for now.
Okay, so what is the state of the pod?
So it seems to be in a pending state.
So select pending.
Now why do you think the pod is in a pending state?
Is it because image is not available?
Is there an error?
So let's see, let's do describe pod in the pod name.
And here you'll see the, the reason
why it's in a pending state.
It says that the pod didn't tolerate one node that had taint
and spraying martin that the pod didn't tolerate.
So basically the pod mosquito cannot tolerate the taint.
martin, that's, that's the problem here.
So we're gonna select that.
Okay, so now we have to create another pod named B
with the engine X image.
Which has a toleration set to the taint martin.
So we're gonna do a kubectl, run command, to create a pod.
The name is going to be B,
and the image is going to be engine X.
And basically, now we have to add toleration to it,
but you cannot specify toleration in the command lane.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna do a, a dry run,
equals client, to generate AMO file for this pod.
So that's the AMO file
and we're gonna redirect that to B.AMO.
So we have this in, in B.AMO,
we're going to edit B.AMO file,
and we're going to add in tolerations.
So add a section called tolerations.
Now if you're not sure of the, the format
check out the Kubernetes documentation pages,
and search for chains tolerations.
And that's the first result.
And these are, this is the command for taint,
and this is, this is the format for tolerations.
So dash key operator value and effect.
So that's key.
So key is going to be spray, operator, value, and effect.
So the value is going to be seen,
effect is going to be audio,
finally we have operator just to be equal,
operator set to equal.
You save that... And let's create image.
Okay, so it's now in a container creating state.
Let's watch the creation process
and we can see that it's now in a running state.
So this part is now running.
Okay, so that's, that's correct.
Now noticed the B pod was scheduled on node zero one.
So let's see where it was scheduled.
And we see the B pod is on node zero one.
So basically, now this B was able to tolerate the taint set
on node zero one.
Now do you see any taints on control plane node?
So let's look at the control plane node
and let's look at taints.
And we see that yes, there is a taint set
on the control plane node and it's set to NoSchedule.
That's the effect.
So yes, it's set, it's set to NoSchedule.
Okay, now remove the taint on control plane,
which currently has the taint effect of NoSchedule.
So we've got to remove that.
So first let's get that.
So this is the taint, so let's copy that.
And the command to remove it is the same kubecolor taint.
And you just specify the node, that's control point node.
Specify the 10 that we wanna remove
and at the end you've got to put a dash or a minus
for it to remove that 10.
So it says it's untainted.
So let's confirm that.
Go back to taints and see it's, nothing is set.
Just click on check.
Okay, so that's, that's done,
and now we've got to check the status of the pods again.
And we see that the, the pod mosquito,
which earlier was in a pending state,
is now in a running state.
So that's the state of, of the pod mosquito.
And then we have to...
Let's check at what, on what node is it placed.
So as you can see it's now placed on the control plane node.
So earlier at, in the beginning,
the control plane node has a taint set, set on it,
and then we set a taint on node zero one,
and then we created the mosquito pod.
And so it was not placed on any of the nodes
because both of them had a taint then.
Then we created the B pod
with the toleration on node zero one.
So the B pod was able to be placed on node zero one
and then we removed the taint on control plane.
And without doing anything the not, the,
the pod mosquito was automatically placed on control plane
because it no longer has any kind of taint on it.
So it's, the answer to this is control plane.
Okay, So that's the end of this lab.

--- Node Selectors ---

In this lecture we will talk about node selectors in Kubernetes.
Let us start with a simple example.
You have a three node cluster of which two are smaller nodes with lower hardware resources, and one
of them is a larger node configured with higher resources.
You have different kinds of workloads running in your cluster.
You would like to dedicate the data processing workloads that require higher horsepower to the larger
node, as that is the only node that will not run out of resources in case the job demands extra resources.
However, in the current default setup, any pods can go to any nodes.
So pod see in this case may very well end up on nodes 2 or 3, which is not desired.
To solve this, we can set a limitation on the pods so that they only run on particular nodes.
There are two ways to do this.
The first is using node selectors, which is the simple and easier method for this.
We look at the pod definition file we created earlier.
This file has a simple definition to create a pod with a data processing image.
To limit this pod to run on the larger node, we add a new property called node selector to the spec
section and specify the size as large.
But wait a minute, where did the size large come from?
And how does Kubernetes know which is the large node?
The key value pair of size and large are in fact labels assigned to the nodes.
The scheduler uses these labels to match and identify the right node to place the pods on.
Labels and selectors are a topic we have seen many times throughout this Kubernetes course, such as
with services, replica sets, and deployments.
To use labels in a node selector like this, you must have first labeled your nodes prior to creating
this pod.
So let us go back and see how we can label the nodes.
To label a node, use the command Kube cube control label nodes, followed by the name of the node and
the label in a key value pair format.
In this case it would be cube control label nodes node one, followed by the label in a key value format
such as size equals large.
Now that we have labeled the node, we can get back to creating the pod, this time with the node selector
set to a size of large.
When the pod is now created, it is placed on node one as desired.
Node selector served our purpose, but it has limitations.
We used a single label and selector to achieve our goal here.
But what if our requirement is much more complex?
For example, we would like to say something like place the pod on a large or medium node or something
like place the pod on any nodes that are not small.
You cannot achieve this using node selectors.
For this node affinity and anti-affinity features were introduced and we will look at that next.

--- Node Affinity ---

In this lecture we will talk about node affinity feature in Kubernetes.
The primary purpose of node affinity feature is to ensure that pods are hosted on particular nodes.
In this case, to ensure the large data processing pod ends up on node one.
In the previous lecture, we did this easily using node selectors.
We discussed that you cannot provide advanced expressions like or or not with node selectors.
The node affinity feature provides us with advanced capabilities to limit pod placement on specific
nodes.
With great power comes great complexity.
So the simple node selector specification will now look like this with node affinity.
Although both does exactly the same thing, place the pod on the large node.
Let us look at it a bit closer.
Under spec you have affinity and then node affinity under that.
And then you have a property that looks like a sentence called required during scheduling.
Ignored during execution.
No description needed for that.
And then you have the node selector terms.
That is an array.
And that is where you will specify the key and value pairs.
The key value pairs are in the form, key operator, and value where the operator is in the in operator
ensures that the pod will be placed on a node whose label size has any value in the list of values specified
here.
In this case, it is just one called large.
If you think your pod could be placed on a large or a medium node, you could simply add the value to
the list of values like this.
You could use the not in operator to say something like size, not n small, where node affinity will
match the nodes with a size not set to small.
We know that we have only set the label size to large and medium nodes, Notes.
The smaller notes don't even have the label set, so we don't really have to even check the value of
the label, as long as we are sure we don't set a label size to the smaller notes.
Using the exists operator will give us the same result.
The operator will simply check if the label size exists on the notes, and you don't need the values
section for that, as it does not compare the values.
There are a number of other operators as well.
Check the documentation for specific details.
Now we understand all of this and we're comfortable with creating a pod with specific affinity rules.
When the pods are created, these rules are considered and the pods are placed onto the right nodes.
But what if node affinity could not match a node with a given expression?
In this case, what if there are no nodes with the label called size?
Say we had the labels and the pods are scheduled.
What if someone changes the label on the node at a future point in time.
Will the pod continue to stay on the node?
All of this is answered by the long sentence like property under node affinity, which happens to be
the type of node affinity.
The type of node affinity defines the behavior of the scheduler with respect to node affinity, and
the stages in the lifecycle of the pod.
There are currently two types of node affinity available required during scheduling, ignored during
execution, and preferred during scheduling.
Ignored during execution, and there are additional types of node affinity planned as of this recording.
Required during scheduling.
Required during execution.
We will now break this down to understand further.
We will start by looking at the two available affinity types.
There are two states in the lifecycle of a pod when considering node affinity during scheduling and
during execution.
During scheduling is the state where a pod does not exist and is created for the first time.
We have no doubt that when a pod is first created, the affinity rules specified are considered to place
the pods on the right nodes.
Now, what if the nodes with matching labels are not available?
For example, we forgot to label the node as large.
That is where the type of node affinity used comes into play.
If you select the required type, which is the first one, the scheduler will mandate that the pod be
placed on a node with the given affinity rules.
If it cannot find one, the pod will not be scheduled.
This type will be used in cases where the placement of the pod is crucial.
If a matching node does not exist, the pod will not be scheduled.
But let's say the pod placement is less important than running the workload itself.
In that case, you could set it to preferred.
And in cases where a matching node is not found, the scheduler will simply ignore node affinity rules
and place the pod on any available node.
This is a way of telling the scheduler, hey, try your best to place the pod on matching node, but
if you really cannot find one, just place it anywhere.
The second part of the property or the other state is during execution.
During execution is the state where a pod has been running, and a change is made in the environment
that affects node affinity, such as a change in the label of a node.
For example, say an administrator removed the label we set earlier called size equals large from the
node.
Now, what would happen to the pods that are running on the node?
As you can see, the two types of node affinity available today has this value set to ignored, which
means pods will continue to run and any changes in node affinity will not impact them once they are
scheduled.
In the next lecture, we will compare taints and Tolerations and node affinity.

--- Lab - Node Affinity ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Node Affinity (Optional) ---

-: Okay in this video, we will go over the practice test
for node affinity. So the first question is
to identify
the labels on node, node 01,
so to count
the number of labels on node 01. So let's do
kubectl, describe node,
node 01
and let's look at the labels.
So we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 5 labels.
So we're gonna select five.
And then the next question is, what is the value set
to the label at beta.kubernetes.io/arc?
So
on node 01, so we are already
on node 01 and it is AMD 64.
That's
this one.
Okay. So the next question is to apply a label
called color equals blue to node 01.
So for that we're going to use the kubectl
label command. So let's take a look at the help.
And here we have some examples.
So you have kubectl label, the pods or node,
whatever.
What is the object that we wanna apply the label to?
And then the node name, and then just the label.
So it's pretty straightforward.
So we're gonna do kubectl, label,
node,
node 01
and then color equals
blue.
Let's
verify that
it's set correctly.
We're gonna go back, cause the labels
and we see the color equals blue.
Okay. Now the next one is to create a new deployment
named blue with the nginx image and three replicas.
So lets create a deployment.
The name is blue,
image is
nginx,
and
replicas is three.
Okay,
so the next one is, which nodes can the pods
for the blue deployment be placed on?
So we, we've gotta check the tense on, on both
the nodes. So let's do that.
Let's
check the tense on each one.
So we're gonna do a, we've gotta describe node
Let's check node 01.
And
let's
check for
tense.
So there are no tense set on, node 01 and the
other node which I believe is the control plane node.
Let's check that too.
So...
So the node plane. So there are no, no tense on either
of these nodes but for now the pods can be scheduled
on either of the nodes because there are no tense
on any of these nodes.
Okay, so in this question, the task is to set node affinity
to the deployment to place the part on node 01 only.
So we're going to edit the deployment.
So that's kubectl edit deployment
blue.
So we're here and
what we need to do is on the pod specification
now we've got to set the node affinity for these, right?
So we, we have to use the required
during scheduling, ignore during execution
then use the color and the values to close.
So for this, let's go to the Kubernetes documentation page
and search for
affinity.
And let's get this.
And here, let's look for the affinity
spec.
So we going to copy this
and
paste it here.
So here, basically this one is an example for a pod.
And so all of these are kind of aligned
bit more to the left.
But here, this is under the pod
which is under the template section of deployment.
So we have to move it all a little bit to the right.
So for this, what I'm gonna do here is
the first one is, okay, first line is okay
but all these remaining lines
we need to move it
one step inside.
So
press capital V and then select all the lines.
Then I'm gonna do a greater than symbol.
So that's shift dot on the keyboard that I'm using.
It moves everything to the, to the right.
So it's not, not very pretty
but I think that will do the job for now.
And I'm just going to
set the key to color
and
the value to low.
So there, there are ways that we can set the VIM settings
so that this always, it gets intended
with spaces
as opposed to multiple spaces at a time that you
can see here. So, we're gonna save that
and let's give this a shot.
Okay, so that's done.
Now the question is to find
out which nodes the ports are placed on.
So let's run a kubectl get pods -o wide
that kind of shows us that all the pods
are all node 01.
So they're all on node 01.
So the next task is to create a new deployment named red
with nginx image and two replicas
and ensure it gets placed on the control plane node only.
And the recommendation is to use the label node kubernetes
.io/master which is already set on the control plane node.
So if you look at the
control plane node
we see that there is this label, right?
It doesn't have a value set, right?
So all we need to do is
to set a node affinity
rule that says
the pods that are part
of the deployment red should be placed
on a node that has this label set.
And the label does not have a value.
But if this label exists
then that's where it should be placed on.
So let's try and do that.
So we'll use the kubectl create deployment command
and then the name is Redis.
Sorry, red.
Image is nginx
and replicas
=2.
Okay? But we're not gonna create it.
So we're gonna do a dry run because we need to
get the yaml file to input the node affinity rules.
So we're gonna do a dry run=client
and then -o yaml
that's gonna give us the yaml output.
Then we're going to
put it to a file named red.yaml.
Now we're going to edit that file.
And within the spec section
we're gonna do the same
as we did before.
So we're gonna copy this node affinity rule
and paste it.
Now we've got to select all of these lines.
I'm gonna do a
shift dot shift dot on my keyboard
which is gonna, and that's basically the, the greater
than symbol and it's gonna move to the right.
Now we're gonna change this to the key is the label
which is this.
I'm gonna copy and paste.
And as we realize that this label does not have value
so there's no point in checking the value here.
So we're gonna get rid of this and all,
all we are gonna do is say if the label exists
so the operator would be Exists
with the capital E,
lets save that.
And now we're going to create
a deployment.
There seems to be some error.
So let's go back,
see what the error is.
It's on line 26
Do not find expected
key.
So line
26
is this.
Okay, actually it's this line here.
So this is not currently intended, that's the problem.
We're going to move it two characters before.
Okay, So we're going to save that.
Let's try that again.
Okay. So even though here it's said line 26
the issue was a few lines above
okay so let's check our solution.
All right, So that works.
And if we look at pods now,
we'll see that those
the new pods are on node control plane.
Okay?
Okay, that's the end of this lab.

--- Taints and Tolerations vs Node Affinity ---

Now that we have learned about taints and tolerations and node affinity, let us tie together the two
concepts through a fun exercise.
We have three nodes and three pods, each in three colors blue, red, and green.
The ultimate aim is to place the blue pod in the blue node, the red pod in the red node, and likewise
for green.
We are sharing the same Kubernetes cluster with other teams, so there are other pods in the cluster
as well as other nodes.
We do not want any other pod to be placed on our node.
Neither do we want our pods to be placed on their nodes.
Let us first try to solve this problem using taints and tolerations.
We apply a taint to the nodes, marking them with their colors blue, red and green, and we then set
a toleration on the pods to tolerate the respective colors.
When the pods are now created, the nodes ensure they only accept the pods with the right toleration.
So the green pod ends up on the green node and the blue pod ends up on the blue node.
However, taints and tolerations does not guarantee that the pods will only prefer these nodes, so
the red pods ends up on one of the other nodes that do not have a taint or toleration set.
This is not desired.
Let us try to solve the same problem with node affinity.
With node affinity, we first label the nodes with their respective colors blue, red, and green.
We then set node selectors on the pods to tie the pods to the nodes.
As such, the pods end up on the right nodes.
However, that does not guarantee that other pods are not placed on these nodes.
In this case, there is a chance that one of the other pods may end up on our nodes.
This is not something we desire.
As such, a combination of taints and tolerations and node affinity rules can be used together to completely
dedicate nodes for specific pods.
We first use taints and tolerations to prevent other pods from being placed on our nodes, and then
we use node affinity to prevent our pods from being placed on their nodes.
Well, that's it for this lecture.

--- Resource Requirements ---

Let's look at resource requirements.
Let us start by looking at a three node Kubernetes cluster.
Each node has a set of CPU and memory resources available.
Now every pod requires a set of resources to run.
In this case, for example, this pod requires two CPUs and one memory unit.
Now, whenever a pod is placed on a node, it consumes the resources available on that node.
Now, as we have discussed before, it is the Kubernetes Scheduler that decides which node a pod goes
to.
The scheduler takes into consideration the amount of resources required by a pod and those available
on the nodes, and identifies the best node to place a pod on.
In this case, the scheduler schedules a new pod on node two because there are sufficient resources
available on that node.
If nodes have no sufficient resources available.
The scheduler avoids placing the pod on those nodes, and instead places the pod on one where sufficient
resources are available, and if there is no sufficient resources available on any of the nodes, then
the scheduler holds back, scheduling the pod and you will see the pod in a pending state.
And if you look at the events using the cube control describe pod command, you will see there is an
insufficient CPU.
Now let us now focus on the resource requirements for each pod.
So what are these blocks and what are their values.
Now you can specify the amount of CPU and memory required for Pod when creating one.
For example, it could be one CPU and one GB of memory and this is known as the resource request for
a container.
So the minimum amount of CPU or memory requested by the container.
So when the scheduler tries to place the pod on a node, it uses these numbers to identify a node which
has sufficient amount of resources available.
So to do this in the the sample pod definition file, all you need to do is add a section called resources
under which add requests and specify the new values for memory and CPU usage.
In this case, I set it to four gigabyte of memory and two counts of CPU.
So when the scheduler gets a request to place this pod, it looks for a node that has this amount of
resources available.
And when the pod gets placed on a node, the pod gets a guaranteed amount of resources available for
it.
So what does one count of CPU really mean?
Now you can specify any value as low as 0.1.
So 0.1 CPU can also be expressed as 100 M, where M stands for milli, and you can go as low as one
M, but not lower than that.
Uh, now one count of CPU is equivalent to one Vcpu so that's one vcpu in AWS.
So if you're looking at the AWS cloud, or it could be referred to as one core in GCP or Azure or one
Hyperthread, um, on other other systems, and you could request a higher number of CPUs for the container
provided your nodes are sufficiently funded.
In this example, I have set it to five.
Now, similarly with memory, you could specify 256 mebibyte using the mi suffix, or specify the same
value in memory like this.
That's the um, the full number, the whole number, and or specify the same value in memory like this
as m.
So um or use the suffix g for uh gigabyte.
So note the difference between g and g.
So g is gigabyte and it refers to 1000MB, whereas g refers to GB byte.
And that that would be equivalent to 1024MB.
So the same applies to megabyte and maybe byte in kilobyte and kibibyte.
Now let's look at a container running on a node, and by default, a container has no limit to the resources
it can consume on a node.
So say a container that's part of a pod starts with one CPU on a node.
It can go up and consume as much resources as it requires.
And and that suffocates the native processes on the node or other containers of resources.
Um, however, you can set a limit for the resource usage on these pods.
For example, if you set a limit of one vcpu to um, the containers, a container will be limited to
consume only one vcpu uh, from that node.
So the same goes with memory.
For example, you can set a limit of 512 megabyte on containers.
Um, like this.
Now you can specify the limits under the limits section.
Under the resources section in your Pod definition file.
So here specify the new limits for memory and CPU.
Like this.
Now when the pod is created, Kubernetes sets new limits for the container.
And remember that the limits and requests are set for each container within a pod.
So if there are multiple containers, then each container can have a request or limit set for its own.
So what happens when a pod tries to exceed resources beyond its specified limit?
In case of the CPU, the system throttles the CPU so that it does not go beyond the specified limit.
A container cannot use more CPU resources than its limit.
However, this is not the case with memory.
A container can use more memory resources than its limit, so if a pod tries to consume more memory
than its limit constantly.
The pod will be terminated and you will see that the pod terminated with an error in the logs or in
the output of the describe command.
When you run it.
So that's what is Om refers to out of memory kill.
So now that we have learned what resource requests are and what limits are and how they function, and
what happens when a particular container or pod hits the limits of that were defined, let's see what
the default configuration is, right?
So by default Kubernetes does not have a CPU or memory request or limit set.
So this means that any pod can consume as much resources as required on any node, and suffocate other
pods or processes that are running on the node of resources.
So this is very, very important to note.
So let's just look at how CPU requests and limits work.
Let's say there are two pods competing for CPU resources on the cluster.
And when I say pod, I mean a container within a pod.
Right.
So just keep that in mind.
So without a resource or a limit set, one pod can consume all the CPU resources on the node and prevent
the second part of required resources.
So of course this is not ideal.
Now let's look at another case where we have no request specified.
But we do have limits specified.
In this case, Kubernetes automatically sets requests to the same as limits.
For example, requests and limits are assumed to be three in this case, and each pod is guaranteed
three vCPUs and no more than that, as limits are also set to the same.
The next one is where requests and limits are set.
In this case, each pod gets a guaranteed number of CPU requests, which is one vcpu and can go up to
the limits that is defined, which is three vcpu, but not more.
So this might look to be the most ideal scenario.
However, the issue is that if Pod one needs more CPU cycles for some reason and pod two isn't really
consuming that many CPU cycles, then we don't want to limit pod one of CPU, right?
So we'd like to allow pod one to use the available CPU cycles, as long as pod two doesn't really need
it.
So if there are sufficient CPU cycles available on the system, then why not let the pods use them?
Right?
So we don't want to unnecessarily limit resources of CPU cycles.
So, uh, that's uh, that is not really the ideal scenario.
And that's where the last, um, scenario comes in.
So setting requests but no limits in this case because requests are set each pod is guaranteed one vcpu.
However, because limits are not set when available, any pod can consume as many CPU cycles as available.
But at any point in time, If pod two is, uh, requires additional, uh, CPU cycles or whatever it
is.
It has requested, then it will be guaranteed its requested CPU cycle.
So this is the most ideal setup.
Of course, there are cases where you absolutely may want to limit a pod of resources, and in that
case you may set limits.
For example, a good use case for setting limits is our labs themselves, where, um, all the labs
that you've been, you guys have been going through and accessing, um, as part of this course, they
are hosted as containers, um, on a cluster.
Right.
And since it's made accessible to public and um, users, uh, can run any kind of workload that they
want, we set limits to prevent the user from misusing the infrastructure to, let's say, perform Bitcoin
mining or, um, other resource consuming activities.
So that works for us in that case.
But in your case, if you don't want to restrict your application to consume additional CPU, uh, if
needed, then you could consider not setting limits.
But remember, if you were to do that, you need to make sure that all the pods have some request set,
because that's the only way a pod will have resources guaranteed when there are no limits set for other
pods.
Right.
So if there is any pod that has no request set and and there are no limits set for all the all the other
pods, then it's possible that any pod could consume all the memory, all the CPU that's available on
the node, and starve the pod that has no request defined.
So just make sure that you have set requests for all the nodes.
So a couple of things to note.
The requests and limits may be different for each pod, but for the sake of simplicity we are assuming
that it's the same for both pods in these examples that I'm sharing here.
Right?
But you can have absolutely different requests or limit set for containers for each containers within
each pods.
So also note that these recommendations are just for CPU.
So let's look at how it works for memory next.
So it's kind of similar.
So if you look at the memory let's say there are two.
In the first case there are two pods competing for memory resources on the cluster.
And without a resource or limit set, one pod can consume all the memory resources on the node and prevent
the second pod of required resources.
So this is not ideal.
Now let's look at the case where we have no requests specified.
But we do have limits specified.
And in this case Kubernetes automatically sets requests to the same as limits.
So for example requests and limits are assumed to be three gigabytes in this case.
And each pod is guaranteed three gigabytes and no more as limits is also the same.
The next one is where requests and limits are set.
In this case, each pod gets a guaranteed amount of memory, which is one gigabyte and can go up to
the limits defined, which is three gigabytes but not more.
And the last one is setting requests, but no limits.
In this case, because requests are set, each pod is guaranteed one gigabyte.
However, because limits are not set when available, any pod can consume as much memory as available,
and if pod two requests more memory to free up pod one, the only option available is to kill it now,
because unlike CPU, we cannot throttle memory once memory is assigned to a pod.
The only way to kind of retrieve it is to kill the pod and free up all the memory that are used by it.
Okay.
So now, as we discussed before, by default, Kubernetes does not have resource requests or limits
configured for pods.
But then how do we ensure that every pod created has some defaults?
Um, set.
Now this is possible with limit ranges.
So limit ranges can help you define default values to be set for containers in pods that are created
without a request or limit specified in the Pod definition files.
This is applicable at the namespace level.
So remember that and this is an object.
So you create a definition file with the API version set to v1 kind set to limit range.
And we'll give it a name CPU resource constraint.
We then set the default limit to 500 M.
Default request to the same as well.
Um.
We will also specify a max CPU as one and a minimum as 100 M, so the max refers to the maximum limit
that can be set on a container in a pod, and minimum refers to the minimum request a container in a
pod can make.
So these are of course some example values, not a recommendation or anything.
So you must set whatever is best for your applications.
Um so the same goes for memory.
Uh, use memory instead of CPU and specify the defaults and max and min values in this in this form.
And note that these limits are enforced when a pod is created.
So if you create or change a limit range it does not affect existing pods.
It will only affect newer pods that are created after the limit range is created or updated.
And finally, is there any way to restrict the total amount of resources that can be consumed by applications
deployed in a Kubernetes cluster.
For example, if we had to say that all the pods together shouldn't consume more than this much of CPU
or memory.
What we could do is create quotas at a namespace level.
So a resource quota is a namespace level object that can be created to set hard limits for requests
and limits.
In this example, this resource limits the total requested CPU and the current namespace to four and
memory to four GB, and it defines a maximum limit of CPU consumed by all the parts together to be ten,
and memory to be up ten gigabyte as well.
Right.
So that's um, that's another option, uh, that can be explored.
Well, uh, that's all for now.
Uh, refer to these pages on the Kubernetes documentation site for more information, and head over
to the labs, and I'll see you in the next one.

--- A quick note on editing Pods and Deployments ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Resource Limits ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Resource Limits ---

Instructor: Okay. So, let's go over the labs
on resource limits, resource requests and limits.
So, the first question is,
a pod called rabbit is deployed.
Identify the CPU request requirements set on the pod.
So, let's do kubectl get pod,
and see if there is a rabbit pod.
So, let's do a kubectl describe pod rabbit.
And, if you look at this section right here,
we have limits, CPU limits and CPU requests.
So, the CPU requests as requested here is one.
So, let's select one.
Okay, the next task is to delete the rabbit pod.
So, kubectl delete pod rabbit.
Okay.
Okay, now another pod called elephant has been created.
So, let's check that.
Yep, so we have a pod called elephant
and it fails to get to a running state.
So, inspect this pod and identify the reason
why it's not running.
So, let's do a kubectl describe pod elephant.
And, if you look at this section here, called Last State,
it says, the reason is OOMKilled, right?
So, that's, basically, that indicates
that it's a memory issue.
So, the reason is OOMKilled.
So, let's select that.
So, the status OOMKilled indicates that it is failing
because the pod ran out of memory.
Identify the memory limit set on the pod.
So, the memory limit is, as you can see here, it's 10mi.
Right? So, that's the memory limit set on this pod.
So, the elephant pod runs a process
that consumes 15 amount of memory.
So, increase the limit of the elephant pod to 20,
and delete and recreate the pod if required.
So, one thing we have to do is to change it.
So, as you can see here, the command used to
create this pod is, is the stress command,
and it is stresses.
So, it basically gets the pod to use
15 megabytes of memory, but the limit is 10.
So, that's the reason why it's getting killed.
So, we've got to change this to 20.
So, one of the ways to do that
is to do a kubectl edit pod elephant.
But the problem is, we might not
be able to change the limit with an edit.
So, we're going to, let's give it a shot anyway.
So, let's give it 20 and save.
And what this says is, that you cannot,
basically, edit the limits set to a running pod.
So,
So, anyway, let's come out of it.
But, our changes are saved in this file.
So, that's a temporary file, right?
So, let's check that.
And, if you look at the resource limits that we have set,
so it's actually saved here. Our change is saved here.
So, what we could do is, we could just use this file
to recreate the pod, right?
So, we can either delete the pod and then recreate it.
Or, an easier way is to just use
the kubectl replace command, and then use the force
so it actually deletes the existing pod and recreates it,
and give that file.
Just change it here, kubectl replace force dash F,
and then the file name.
So it, basically, deletes the elephant pod
and then it replaces it, recreates it.
So, let's see the status now.
And we see that it's in a running state.
Let's also verify...
that, yep, the limit that we set is now reflecting.
Okay? Yep. We've just checked and made sure
that it's in a running state.
And, the next task is to delete pod.
And, we'll just give it a few seconds
for the process to terminate.
Okay? That's the end of this lab.

--- DaemonSets ---

In this lecture we look at Daemonsets in Kubernetes.
So far we have deployed various pods on different nodes in our cluster with the help of replica sets
and deployments.
We made sure multiple copies of our applications are made available across various different worker
nodes.
Daemonsets are like replica sets, as in, it helps you deploy multiple instances of pods, but it runs
one copy of your pod on each node in your cluster.
Whenever a new node is added to the cluster, a replica of the pod is automatically added to that node,
and when a node is removed, the pod is automatically removed.
The daemonset ensures that one copy of the pod is always present in all nodes in the cluster.
So what are some use cases of Daemonsets?
Say you would like to deploy a monitoring agent or log collector on each of your nodes in the cluster
so you can monitor your cluster better.
A daemonset is perfect for that, as it can deploy your monitoring agent in the form of a pod in all
the nodes in your cluster.
Then you don't have to worry about adding or removing monitoring agents from these nodes when there
are changes in your cluster, as the Daemonset will take care of that for you.
Earlier, while discussing the Kubernetes architecture, we learned that one of the worker node components
that is required on every node in the cluster is a kube proxy.
That is one good use case of Daemonsets.
The kube proxy component can be deployed as a daemonset in the cluster.
Another use case is for networking.
Networking solutions like calico requires an agent to be deployed on each node in the cluster.
We will discuss about networking concepts in much more detail later during this course, but I just
wanted to point it out here for now.
Creating a demon set is similar to the replica set creation process.
It has nested pod specification under the templates section and selectors to link the demon set to the
pods.
A daemon set definition file has a similar structure.
We start with the API version kind metadata and spec.
The API version is apps v1.
Kind is daemon set instead of replica set.
We will set the name to Monitoring daemon.
Under spec you have a selector and a pod specification template.
It's almost exactly like the replica set definition, except that the kind is a daemon set.
Ensure the labels in the selector matches the ones in the pod template.
Once ready, create the daemon set using the kube control.
Create daemon.
Set command to view the created daemon set.
Run the kube control, get daemon, set command and of course to view more details on the kube control,
describe daemon sets command.
So how does a demon set work?
How does it schedule pods on each node?
And how does it ensure that every node has a pod?
If you were asked to schedule a pod on each node in the cluster, how would you do it?
In one of the previous lectures in this section, we discussed that we could set the node name property
on the pod to bypass the scheduler and get the pod placed on a node directly.
So that's one approach.
On each pod, set the node name property in its specification before it is created, and when they are
created, they automatically land on the respective nodes.
So that's how it used to be until Kubernetes version 1.12.
From version 1.1 onwards, the daemon set uses the default scheduler and node affinity rules that we
learned in one of the previous lectures to schedule pods on nodes.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Practice test and practice working with Daemon Sets.

--- Lab - DaemonSets ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - DaemonSets (optional) ---

-: Okay, so let's go through the lab on demo sets.
So the first question is, how many demo sets are created
in the cluster in all name spaces?
So let's do a cube cuttle, hit daemon sets.
If you look at the default name space, there are none.
But if you wanna look at all name spaces
you do a dash A and we see that there are
two demo sets in all name spaces as
the cube flannel DS and cube proxy.
So that's two.
So the next question is
which name space are the demo sets created in?
So if you look at the name space column here
we see that they are in the cube system name space.
So, select cube system
and which of the below is a demo set.
So if you look here, we have the cube
final DS and cube proxy, these are the demo sets.
Should you core DNS, city master.
These are not, it's the cube final DS.
That's the demo set.
On how many nodes are the pods
should you'll buy the demo set cube proxy.
So if you look at cube proxy here, we see the
the design and current ready numbers are one.
So it's just, it, it's one.
But let's also look at it in detail,
so we go describe demo sets cube proxy.
Okay, the name space is you system.
And that's that, okay?
So here you can see the design number of nodes
scheduled is one current number of nodes scheduled is one.
So it's just, it's one, right?
And that's also because if you looked
at this cluster, there's only one
node and that's the reason it's just one, okay?
And what is the image used by the pod,
deployed by the cube final DS team set.
So let's look at the, let's look at the cube
final DS in a bit more detail.
So describe demo set cube flannel DS, and
then the next space is cube system.
And we see that the image is the one
under core RS flannel, so that's this one.
Now the next one is to deploy a demo set
for fluent D login using the given specifications.
So one way to get the specification for
daemon set is to go to the coordinates
documentation pages and get these, right?
But since the, the structure is very similar
to a deployment, an easier way to just do it from here
from the command line is to use the dry run option
for a deployment and create a file and then change it
and just make the necessary changes, right?
So let's assume that we're gonna create a
a deployment because there is no create demo
set command as of this recording, right?
So we're gonna have to do a, create deployment.
And the name is what's given here.
So it's elastic search, name space is cube system
image is this.
And then we're gonna do a dry run.
You're gonna do dry equals one.
And then we're gonna do an output to ammo, right?
So we'll write that to just call it find the ammo.
Then we're gonna edit this file.
So the kind is going to be demo set.
And we don't need replicas, because demo sets
don't have replicas, so you can actually
look at it and compare it here.
So there are no replicas, so we're
gonna remove that and then we'll get rid
of the strategy and this one right here.
And the rest of everything looks okay.
Let's save that file and just create it.
And the name space is Cube System,
and we have that demo set created.
It's not ready yet, but yeah, that should be okay.
So this is, of course a very, a simple example.
If you've not provided any kind
of options or parameters for this demo set
so we're just gonna give it super simple.
But yeah, as far as this task is concerned,
that's all that's asked.
Okay, so that's the end of this lab.

--- Static Pods ---

In this lecture we discuss about static pods in Kubernetes.
Earlier in this course, we talked about the architecture and how the Kubelet functions as one of the
many control plane components in Kubernetes.
The Kubelet relies on the kube API server for instructions on what pods to load on its node, which
was based on a decision made by the kube scheduler which was stored in the etcd data store.
What if there was no kube API server and kube scheduler, and no controllers and no etcd cluster?
What if there was no master at all?
What if there were no other nodes?
What if you're all alone in the sea by yourself?
Not part of any cluster.
Is there anything that the Kubelet can do as the captain of the ship?
Can it operate as an independent node?
If so, who would provide the instructions required to create those pods?
Well, the Kubelet can manage a node independently on the ship host.
We have the cubelet installed and of course we have container D as well to run containers.
There is no Kubernetes cluster, so there are no kube API server or anything like that.
The one thing that the Cubelet knows to do is create pods, but we don't have an API server here to
provide pod details.
By now we know that to create a pod, you need the details of the pod in a pod definition file.
But how do you provide the pod definition file to the kubelet without a kube API server?
You can configure the Cubelet to read the Pod definition files from a directory on the server, designated
to store information about pods.
Place the pod definition files in this directory.
The Cubelet periodically checks this directory for files, reads these files, and creates pods on the
host.
Not only does it create the pod, it can ensure that the pod stays alive if the application crashes,
the kubelet attempts to restart it.
If you make a change to any of the file within this directory, the Kubelet recreates the pod for those
changes to take effect.
If you remove a file from this directory, the pod is deleted automatically.
So these pods that are created by Kubelet on its own, without the intervention from the API server
or the rest of the Kubernetes cluster components are known as static pods.
Remember, you can only create pods this way.
You cannot create replica sets or deployments or services by placing a definition file in the designated
directory.
They're all concepts, part of the whole Kubernetes architecture that requires other cluster plane components
like the replication and deployment controllers, etc. the Kubelet works at a pod level and can only
understand pods, which is why it is able to create static pods this way.
So what is that designated folder and how do you configure it?
It could be any directory on the host, and the location of that directory is passed in to the kubelet
as an option while running the service.
The option is named Pod Manifest Path and here it is set to Etsy Kubernetes Manifest folder.
There is also another way to configure this.
Instead of specifying the option directly in the Kubelet service file, you could provide a path to
another config file using the config option and define the directory path as static pod path in that
file.
Clusters set up by the Kube admin tool uses this approach.
If you're inspecting an existing cluster, you should inspect this option of the Kubelet to identify
the path to the directory.
You will then know where to place the definition file for your static pods, so keep this in mind when
you go through the labs.
You should know to view and configure this option, irrespective of the method used to set up the cluster.
First check the option pod manifest path in the Kubelet service file.
If it's not there, then look for the config option and identify the file used as the config file and
then within the config file, look for the static pod path option.
Either of this should give you the right path.
Once the static pods are created, you can view them by running the docker PS command.
So why not the kube control command as we have been doing so far?
Remember, we don't have the rest of the Kubernetes cluster yet, so the kube control utility works
with the kube API server since we don't have an API server now.
No kube control utility, which is why we're using the docker command.
So then how does it work when the node is part of a cluster?
When there is an API server requesting the Kubelet to create pods, can the Kubelet create both kinds
of pods at the same time?
Well, the way the Kubelet works is it can take in requests for creating pods from different inputs.
The first is through the Pod definition files from the static parts folder as we just saw.
The second is through an http API endpoint, and that is how the kube API server provides input to Kubelet.
The Kubelet can create both kinds of pods, the static pods, and the ones from the API server at the
same time.
Well, in that case, is the API server aware of the static pods created by the Kubelet?
Yes it is.
If you run the kube control get pods command on the master node, the static pods will be listed as
any other pod.
Well, how is that happening?
When the Kubelet creates a static pod, if it is a part of a cluster, it also creates a mirror object
in the kube API server.
What you see from the kube API server is just a read only mirror of the pod.
You can view details about the pod, but you cannot edit or delete it like the usual pods.
You can only delete them by modifying the files from the node's manifest folder.
Note that the name of the pod is automatically Appended with the node name, in this case node zero
one.
So then why would you want to use static paths?
Since static pods are not dependent on the Kubernetes control plane, you can use static pods to deploy
the control plane components itself as pods on a node.
Well, start by installing Kubelet on all the master nodes, then create pod definition files that uses
Docker images of the various control plane components such as the API, server, controller, etcd,
etc..
Place the definition files in the designated manifest folder, and the Kubelet takes care of deploying
the control plane components themselves as pods on the cluster.
This way you don't have to download the binaries, configure services, or worry about the services
crashing if any of these services were to crash.
Since it's a static pod, it will automatically be restarted by the kubelet.
Neat and simple.
That's how the Kube admin tool sets up a Kubernetes cluster, which is why when you list the pods in
the kube system namespace, you see the control plane components as pods in a cluster setup by the Kube
admin tool.
We will explore that setup in the upcoming practice test.
Before I let you go, one question that I get often is about the difference between static pods and
daemon sets.
Daemon sets, as we saw earlier, are used to ensure one instance of an application is available on
all nodes in the cluster.
It is handled by a daemon set controller through the kube API server, whereas static pods, as we saw
in this lecture, are created directly by the Kubelet without any interference from the kube API server
or rest of the Kubernetes control plane.
Components.
Static pods can be used to deploy the Kubernetes control plane components itself.
Both static pods and pods created by daemon sets are ignored by the kube scheduler.
The kube scheduler has no effect on these pods.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice test and practice working with static pods.

--- Lab - Static Pods ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Static Pods (Optional) ---

-: Okay, so in this video we're going to go
over this lab on static pods.
So the first question is, how many static pods exist
in the cluster in all of the named spaces?
So let's go, let's do get pods dash a to list the pods
in all named spaces.
Now one way to figure out, or you know
differentiate a static pod
from the other pods is to look at its name
and at the end you'll have the node name appended to it.
So this one, this one, this
this is a static pod created on control plane.
All of all of these three are, and as well as this.
So there are four static pods and then there are no others
with a visible node name to the end of it.
So that's one way to look at it.
Another way to be sure is to look
at one of the pod in a bit more detail.
So let's say for example, this one let's do
you could get pod and then we do
we provide the name space, which is the system.
And, but this is just going to list the pod.
It's not gonna give us the information that we need.
We need to look at the YAML format of the, of the pod
So we're gonna do a dash O and YAML
So this is gonna give us a lot of information
but from this, what we need to do is we need to look
at the owner reference section.
So if you scroll down
there's this section called owner references.
And under this you'll see the owner of this pod is the node
the kind is node, and the name is control plane.
So that's one way to be sure if a
a pod is a static pod or not.
And if you look at the screen, and
if you look at the same for another pod that is
not a static pod
cube system to YAML output.
And if we look at the owner reference for this right here
we see that the owner of this is a replica set
right? So, so this is not a static pod.
So that's one way to figure that out.
There are ways that you can do this for all of the pods
like using filters and selectors.
We should be able to kind of go through this, traverse this
this file and then look at the owner reference.
But we haven't learned
about filters and you know, advanced kubectl commands yet
So we'll skip that for now.
But this is an easy way
There are two ways to find out if a pod is static or not
and one of that is to look for no names at the end of it.
And to be sure you can use the
the command that I just shared.
So we know that there are four static pods
and they're all on control plane now, as of now.
So let's run the command again.
The question is, which
of the below components is not deployed as a static pod?
So if you look at this, we have the ETCD
it's a control plane, ETCD is a static pod,
cube PPA server is a static pod
cube control manager is a static pod
and cube scheduler is a static pod
So not Core DNS
Core DNS does not seem to be a static pod.
So let's select that.
Okay, which of the below components is not deployed?
It's a static pod.
Again, we know that all
of these are except for the queue proxy.
So the queue proxy is not a static pod.
On which notes are the static pods created currently.
So all of these, as we just saw, are on control planes.
So control plane is answered to this question.
Now what is the path of the directory holding the static pod
and the definition files?
So one way to figure that out is to look at the
the cubelet conf.
So, so our lib cubelet and then we have the config dot yaml
And if you look into this file, so this is the cubelet
configuration and we have learned that it is the cubelet
that creates the pods.
And there is this specification here that says
static pod path.
And it is currently said to the ETC Kubernetes
Manifest directory.
So let's look at that directory and we see that this is
there are the files that are used to create the static pods.
So that is slash etc slash kubernetes slash manifests
That's the correct answer to this question.
And also remember that this is the path to check the static
pod configuration, the static pod path configuration
on any given node.
Okay, so how many pod definition files are present
in the manifest folder?
So that's 1, 2, 3, 4 4.
And that is equal to the number of static pods
that we have here.
And what is the Docker image used to
deploy the cube APA server as a static pod
as a static pod.
So if you look at cube APA server
Here, so this followed by this
and if we look into the image
we see that it's kh dot gcr dot io slash cube APA server
version 1 point 2 0 0.
So as of this recording
this is the version you should make sure
that whatever the version needs that you are working on
make sure you choose that as the answer.
Okay? So the next question is to create a static pod
named static pod static busy box that uses the
busy box image and the command sleep.
So we know that the command to create a pod is run
and the name is static busy box, the image is busy box, okay
And the command is sleep 1000.
Now what we need to do is we don't want to create this
I said we just wanna get the pod definition file
and place it in the static pod path for this node, right?
So we're going to do a dry run for this.
So dry run here.
Now when you, when you use the command option
always remember not to place any option that is
for the kubectl command after this, right?
So anything that you put after this
especially after the two dashes here
is going to be considered as an option for this command.
So do not place anything.
So the, the command should always be at the end.
So in this case I'm gonna put the dry run
before the command option.
So any, any option for the kubectl utility should be
before the command option.
So dry run equals find and then dash O yaml
So I get this and okay
so I'm going to redirect that to a file.
So for now I'm going to put it to static busy box dot yaml
Then I'm going to move this
to a C Kubernetes manifest folder.
And let's see if pod is created
Okay, so the pod is now created
static busy box control plane
and it's in a running state.
Okay, so let's go next.
Now edit the image
on the static pod to use the
busy box 1 point 2 8 point 4 image
So to make any changes to a static pod
you could simply edit the file and save it.
So let's just go to edit the file in EDC
Kubernetes manifest add pod
and then just change this right here
busy boxy 1.284 and just save that
And if we look at the pod now it's pending.
Let's watch the status.
Okay, there's a issue.
Okay, got it wrong.
Sorry about that.
Change that now.
So that's why you should always verify
after you do anything, especially in the exam
it's possible that we might make typos different places.
So you always verify your work after you're done.
Okay, so that's done.
Let's wait for the next question.
Okay, so we just created a new static pod
named Static Green Box, find it and delete it.
So let's see to get pods.
And we see that there is indeed a static green box
and we've, we have got to delete it.
Now if we just try to delete the pod like this, okay
it says it's deleted, but if you look at it
it's gonna be recreated because we know
that it's a pod that the cubelet manages so there's
it's not possible to delete a static pod just
using the delete command.
It would delete it, but it would be created again, right?
So we need to find the manifest file
for that static pod and delete it.
So if you look at, if you look at the
the EDC Kubernetes manifest directory, we'll see that
there's none for the green box.
And that's basically because
if you look at the name of, of the static pod
you see that it's created on node zero one.
So we've got to go, go to the node
on node zero one and delete it from there.
So let's find out how to go to node zero one.
So let's look, got a node node command
and we see that we have a
indeed a control plane and a node zero one node.
If we do a dashboard wide
we'll see that it has an IP address.
So the control plane is at 10, dot 38 dot 1 oh 2 dot 6
And node zero one is at 10 dot 38, 1 oh 2 dot 8
So let's the stage to node zero one.
Okay? And, and sometimes if you
just depending on how the DS is configured, if
you just do SSS to just node zero one, that might work too.
But if that isn't working, then you should always look
up at the internal IP address following this command
and sss do that node.
So now we are on node zero one
and all we need to do is find the
the static file manifest path.
So let's go to, let's see, EDC Kubernetes manifest directory
And as you see it, it doesn't exist, right?
So there is no static green box path here.
So we'll need to see why that is.
So let's see, let's go back and see the
the cubelet configuration and find
out what's wrong with the path to the static pod
So the, the file is at slash war lib cubelet
and then you have config dot yaml
And if you look at this file
you have the static pod path, and as you can see
it's not at war, it's not at EDC Kubernetes manifest
It's actually changed.
It is at EDC just to mess with you.
Right? So that's a change we made just to
get you to think a little bit.
So, yep.
And there indeed, we have the green box dot yaml
So all they need to do is just remove this file from here
okay? And make sure it's removed.
And let's exit and go back
to the control plane and list, list the notes
and let's watch and wait for it to be terminated.
Okay? So the
the pod is now being terminated and that's gone.
Okay? So that's, that's that.
And that's the end of this lab.

--- Priority Classes ---

Let us now look at priority classes in Kubernetes.
We know that Kubernetes runs different applications as pods with different priorities.
For example, the Kubernetes control plane components itself run as pods within the cluster.
And we know that no matter what, those workloads need to always run.
Similarly, we may have priority databases, critical applications running on the cluster as well as
lower priority workloads like background jobs.
Now, we need a way to make sure that higher priority workloads always get scheduled without being interrupted
by lower priority workloads.
This is where priority classes come in.
Priority classes help us define priorities for different workloads, so that higher priority workloads
always get priority over lower priority ones.
If a higher priority pod cannot be scheduled, the scheduler will try to terminate a lower priority
workload to make that happen.
So priority classes are non namespaced objects, meaning they are not created within a specific namespace.
They are not attached to a specific namespace.
So once they're created, they're available to be configured on any port in any namespace.
So how do you define priorities?
We define priorities using a range of numbers.
So a priority can be defined as high as 1 billion and as low as -2 billion or around that number.
A larger number indicates higher priority.
Now this range that I've just mentioned is for the applications and workloads that are deployed on the
cluster.
So the positive 1 billion to -2 billion number is for the applications or workloads that are deployed
as apps on the cluster.
But there is a separate range that's dedicated for internal system critical parts such as the Kubernetes
control plane components itself.
So they always get the highest priority.
and they have priorities up to 2 billion.
So to list existing priority classes run the kubectl get priority class command.
And as you can see it currently lists the system cluster critical and system node critical classes.
And as you can rightly see the value of these are close to 2 billion or around that range.
Let us now see how we can create a new priority class.
So to create a new priority class, we create an object with the API version set to scheduling v1 kind
set to priority class metadata with a name.
And then we define the value.
So this is the number that we just spoke about.
And finally we have the description.
The description is an optional field.
Once this is created we associate this priority class to a pod by using the priority class name property
inside the pod definition.
Like this.
When that pod is created, it is assumed to have this priority that is assigned to the priority class.
Now, what if I don't specify a priority class name for a pod?
By default it is assumed to have a priority value of zero.
However, if you'd like to modify that, you must create a new priority class and assign the global
default property to true.
So this is an optional field, but it can be used to define the default priority of all the pods.
If there are no priority class name explicitly defined in that pod's configuration file.
So as such.
Also note that it can only be defined in a single priority class, so the global default property can
only be defined in a single priority class because you cannot have multiple default values, right?
So you cannot have more than one priority class with the global default property set to true.
Now let us look at the effect of pod priority.
So say there are two workloads with two priorities coming in to be scheduled a critical app with a higher
priority of seven, and a jobs app with a lower priority of five.
Now, since the critical app is of higher priority, it gets, uh, placed first.
And if there is still resources available.
So what you see here are the available resources on the cluster or the consumption of the resources
on the cluster.
So there is still some more resources left.
So the workload with the lower priority also gets placed.
Uh next uh after the higher priority pod gets placed.
Now let's say we have a higher priority job that comes in with a priority of six.
And there are no more resources available on the cluster.
What happens?
Do we evict existing workload or does it wait?
What does it do?
Now that behavior is defined by the preemption policy defined in the priority class assigned to the
new workload.
If the preemption policy is not set, its default value is set to preempt a lower priority.
This means that it would kill the existing lower priority job and take its place.
But if you do not want it to kill or evict the existing workload, and instead wait for the cluster
resources to free up, then you must set this preemption policy to never.
So a preemption policy set to never makes the pods in that priority class non preempting, meaning that
they cannot preempt other pods and it will wait to be scheduled in the scheduling queue.
However, they will get a higher priority in scheduling over other lower priority pods that are also
waiting to be scheduled.
So there's the priority still applies only when it is going to be scheduled.
But will it kill the existing preempt, or will it evict the existing workload or not?
That is defined by the preemption policy.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the labs and practice what we just learned.

--- Lab - Priority Classes ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Multiple Schedulers ---

In this lecture, we look at deploying multiple schedulers in a Kubernetes cluster.
Now we have seen how the default scheduler works in Kubernetes in the previous lectures.
It has an algorithm that distributes pods across nodes evenly, as well as takes into consideration
various conditions.
We specify through taints and tolerations and node affinity, etc..
But what if none of these satisfies your needs?
Say you have a specific application that requires its components to be placed on nodes after performing
some additional checks, so you decide to have your own scheduling algorithm to place pods on nodes
so that you can add your own custom conditions and checks in.
Kubernetes is highly extensible.
You can write your own Kubernetes Scheduler program, package it, and deploy it as the default scheduler,
or as an additional scheduler in Kubernetes cluster.
That way, all of the other applications can go through the default scheduler.
However, some specific applications that you may choose can use your own custom scheduler, so your
Kubernetes cluster can have multiple schedulers at a time.
When creating a pod or a deployment, you can instruct Kubernetes to have the pod scheduled by a specific
scheduler.
So let's see how that's done.
Now, when there are multiple schedulers, they must have different names so that we can identify them
as separate schedulers.
So the default scheduler is named default scheduler.
And this name is configured in a kube scheduler configuration file that looks like this.
Now the default scheduler doesn't really need one because if you don't specify a name it sets the name
to default scheduler.
But this is how it would look if you were to create one.
And for the other schedulers, we could create a separate configuration file and set the scheduler name
like this.
So let's start with the most simplest way of deploying an additional scheduler.
Now earlier we saw how to deploy the Kubernetes Kube scheduler.
We download the kube scheduler binary and run it as a service with a set of options.
Now, to deploy an additional scheduler, you may use the same kube scheduler binary or use one that
you might have built for yourself, which is what you would do if you needed the scheduler to work differently.
In this case, we're going to use the same binary to deploy the scheduler, and this time we point the
configuration to the custom configuration file that we created.
So each scheduler uses a separate configuration file, and with each file having its own scheduler name.
Note that there are other options to be passed in, such as the kubeconfig file to authenticate into
the Kubernetes API, but I'm just skipping that for now just to keep it super simple.
This is not how you would deploy a custom scheduler 99% of the time today, because with kube ADM deployment,
all the control plane components run as a pod or a deployment within the Kubernetes cluster.
So let's look at another way.
So let's look at how it works if you were to deploy the scheduler as a pod.
So we create a pod definition file and specify the Kubeconfig property, which is the path to the scheduler
conf file that has the authentication information to connect to the Kubernetes API server.
We then pass in our custom kube scheduler configuration file as a config option to the scheduler.
Note that we have the scheduler name specified in the file, so that's how the name gets picked up by
the scheduler.
Now another important option to look here is the leader elect option.
And this goes into the scheduler configuration.
The leader elect option is used when you have multiple copies of the scheduler running on different
master nodes, as in a high availability setup where you have multiple master nodes with the scheduler
process running on both of them.
If multiple copies of the same scheduler are running on different nodes, only one can be active at
a time, and that's where the leader elect option helps in choosing a leader who will lead the scheduling
activities.
So we will discuss more about his setup in another section.
In case you do have multiple masters, just remember that you can pass in this additional parameter
to set a log object name.
And this is to differentiate that the new custom scheduler from the default selection process.
Now let's take a look at how to deploy the scheduler as a deployment.
And for this I'm going to go into the Kubernetes documentation pages.
And for the one for configuring multiple schedulers.
And if you look here first of all it shows you how to if you were to build your own scheduler, how
you could clone the Kubernetes repo and then make changes to the scheduler and build it and package
it into a Docker image.
And then here you can see the config file to create a scheduler as a deployment.
You can ignore all of this to begin with.
So this is what it is really.
So here you have the deployment.
And this deployment is similar to the pod but it's just that it's a deployment.
The pot that we just looked at.
But it's just that it's a deployment.
So here you have the image which is the custom cube scheduler image.
And this is the config file that we just talked about which has your custom scheduler config file.
Right.
And the binary is the cube scheduler binary.
Now for this to work there are some additional kind of prerequisites.
So some of these are like the service account and the cluster role bindings.
And these are basically for authentication right.
And we discussed about cluster role bindings and cluster roles and service accounts in uh the auth section.
So if you haven't gone through that yet just hold off on this.
You can basically ignore this for now.
And the only other thing is how this file is passed into the deployment.
Right.
So you can either create this file locally and then pass it in as a volume mount as it's done for the
other pods usually.
Or another thing you could do that's done here.
The approach that's used here is basically creating a config map.
So this is the kube cube scheduler configuration that we just talked about.
Um, with the leader option set to false because I think the replicas is just one.
And then you have the, uh, the scheduler name here.
So this is the, uh, the config file.
And then this config file is passed in as a volume here as a config file.
So basically whatever is the contents in the uh, in that particular config map is then mapped to a
volume mount to a volume here the specific location.
And then from this location you have this YAML file which has which basically has this content.
Right.
So this is how that maps.
But again if you haven't gone through the volume and volume mount sections of this course, then just
hold off on this for now and you'll understand that when we talk about these and then again liveness
probes, readiness probes, resources and security context, all of these are sections that we talk
about later.
So again you can ignore these for now.
But what we need to understand here is just that this section on how this file is passed to this custom
scheduler Are just proceeding with our lecture.
So when you run the the get pods command in the kube system namespace, you can then see the new custom
scheduler running.
So this is if you run it as a pod.
And if you run it as a deployment then you'll probably see a slightly different naming convention.
But you'll be able to see the pod there.
Just make sure you're checking the right namespace.
Now, once we have deployed that custom scheduler, the next step is to configure a pod or a deployment
to use this scheduler.
So how do you use our custom scheduler.
So here we have a pod definition file.
And what we need to do is add a new field called scheduler name and specify the name of the scheduler.
And that's basically it.
This way when the pod is created, the right scheduler gets picked up and the scheduling process works.
Now create the pod using the kubectl create command.
If the scheduler was not configured correctly, then the pod will continue to remain in a pending state.
And if everything is good, then the pod will be in a running state.
So if the pod is in a the pending state, then you can look at the logs under the pod describe command.
If you've got a describe command and you'll mostly notice that the scheduler isn't configured correctly.
Now how do you know which scheduler picked it up.
So we have multiple schedulers.
How do you know which scheduler picked up scheduling a particular pod.
Now we can view this in the events using the kubectl get events command with the dash o wire option.
And this will list all the events in the current namespace and look for the scheduled events.
And as you can see, the source of the event is the custom scheduler that we created.
That's the name that we gave to the custom scheduler.
And the message says that successfully assigned the image.
So that indicates that it's working.
You could also view the logs of the scheduler in case you run into issues.
So for that we have logs using the kubectl logs command and provide the scheduler pod name or the deployment
name.
And then the right namespace.
Well that's it for this lecture and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Lab - Multiple Schedulers ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Multiple Scheduler ---

-: Okay, so let's go over the practice test
for multiple schedulers.
For what is the name of the pod
that deploys the default Kubernetes scheduler
in this environment?
Okay, so let's do a kubectl get pods command
in the kube-system namespace.
So we're gonna look here.
And we see the pod is kube scheduler-control plane.
So let's select that.
Now, what is the image used
to deploy the Kubernetes scheduler?
Inspect the kube scheduler, pod and identify the image.
Let's do a kubectl describe pod
scheduler.
And then specify the namespace as kube-system.
Okay, so here we have the image
and that is case.gcr.io/kube-scheduler
version 1.23.0 as of this recording.
So I'm gonna select that.
Okay, now we've already created the service account
and cluster role binding
that our custom scheduler will make use of.
So all of these are already created.
If we'd like to take a look,
we can do a get service account
my scheduler.
Okay.
So we see the my scheduler service account
and the kube-system namespace
and similarly, there are cluster role bindings as well.
So that's already done for us.
So we don't have to worry about that.
Let's go forward.
And let's create a ConfigMap that the new scheduler
will employ using the concept of ConfigMap
as a volume.
So we have to create a ConfigMap with a name
using the contents of the file,
so there's already a file here.
And this is the configuration.
It will be passed through to the new scheduler
that we're gonna create.
So the file is there.
We just have to create a ConfigMap for it.
So we'll do a kubectl create ConfigMap.
And the name will be,
let's copy and paste.
And it has to be created from file.
We use the form file
as data path to the file.
And also specify the name system.
This will be kube-system.
There's no name.
Okay.
Let's verify that it's created.
It's in the kube-system namespace.
Okay, so that's created.
Go next.
Deploy an additional scheduler to the cluster
following the given specification.
Use the manifest file provided
at root my scheduler.
So there's already a file given for us.
Let's add root.
My scheduler.yaml
or just since we are already in that directory,
you could just give the file name.
And we see that most of the work
is already done.
The liveness probe, the readiness probe are all set
so we don't really have to worry about that.
And all we need to do is add this image
that's given here
and we have to use the same image
that's used by the current scheduler.
So let's find that out first.
Let's do a kubectl pods -a.
And this is current scheduler.
So do a describe.
And kube-system.
And let's do it for the image.
And let's get this image ID.
And we're going to put that in
in the file instead of this placeholder here.
Okay?
And if you look at the rest of the file,
it already has the ConfigMap that we created.
If you scroll down,
you'll see there is the ConfigMap that we created.
So that's already configured.
And that basically passes through
as a volume mount here.
We'll talk about ConfigMaps
in the upcoming lectures,
if you haven't already gone through that yet.
And we're going to create this.
Let's verify that it's created.
In the kube-system namespace, we have my scheduler here.
Let's check.
Okay, so that's done.
And the final step is to create a pod.
So there's already a pod definition file given
and use it to create a pod with a new custom scheduler.
So here we have the NGINX pod definition file
and this is pretty straightforward.
Just a NGINX pod with the NGINX image.
And what we need to do is specify the custom scheduler,
which is basically my scheduler given here.
So as we learned in the lecture,
you have to add a new field here called
scheduler name.
And then we specify the name
of the scheduler we just created.
Save that.
And then we create
a pod.
And we make sure pod is running.
Okay, so that's it.
And that's the end of this lab.

--- Configuring Scheduler Profiles ---

Let us now look at what scheduler profiles are.
So let's first recap how the Kubernetes Scheduler works.
Using this simple example of scheduling a pod to one of these four nodes that you can see here that
are part of the Kubernetes cluster.
So here we have our pod definition file.
And there's our pod.
It is waiting to be scheduled on one of these four nodes.
Now it has a resource requirement of ten CPU.
So it's only going to be scheduled on a node that has ten CPU remaining.
And you can see the available CPU on all of these nodes that are listed here.
Now it is not alone.
There are some other pods that are waiting to be scheduled as well.
So the first thing that happens is that when these pods are created, the pods end up in a scheduling
queue.
So this is where the pods wait to be scheduled.
So at this stage, pods are sorted based on the priority defined on the pods.
So in this case our pod has a high priority set.
So to set a priority you must first create a priority class that looks like this.
And you should set it a name and set it a priority value.
In this case it's set to 1 million.
So that's really high priority.
So this is how pods with higher priority gets to the beginning of the queue to be scheduled first.
And so that sorting happens in this scheduling phase.
Then our pod enters the filter phase.
This is where nodes that cannot run the pod are filtered out.
So in our case the first two nodes do not have sufficient resources.
So do not have ten CPU remaining.
So they are filtered out.
The next phase is the scoring phase.
So this is where nodes are scored with different weights from the two remaining nodes.
The scheduler associates a score to each node based on the free space it will have after reserving the
CPU required for that part.
So in this case the first one has two left and the second will have six left.
So the second node gets a higher score.
And so that's the node that gets picked up.
And finally in the binding phase this is where the pod is finally bound to a node with the highest score.
Now all of these operations are achieved with certain plugins.
For example while in the scheduling queue it's the priority sort plugin that sorts the pods in an order
based on the priority configured on the pods.
This is how pods with priority class gets higher priority over the other pods.
When scheduling in the filtering stage, it's the Node Resources Fit plugin that identifies the nodes
that has sufficient resources required by the pods, and filters out the nodes.
That doesn't.
Now, some other plugin examples that come into this particular stage are the node name plugin that
checks if a pod has a node name mentioned in the pod spec, and filters out all the nodes that does
not match this name.
Another example is the node unschedulable plugin, and that filters out nodes that has the Unschedulable
flag set to true.
So this is when you run the command on a node, which we will discuss later.
But all the nodes that has unschedulable flags set to true.
It's this particular plugin that makes sure that no pods are set on those nodes.
Now in the scoring phase again, the Node Resources Fit plugin associates a score to each node based
on the resource available on it, and after the pod is allocated to it.
So as you can see, a single plugin can be associated in multiple different phases.
Another example of a plugin in this stage would be the image locality plugin, that associates a high
score to the nodes that already has the container image used by the pods among the different nodes.
Now note that at this phase, the plugins do not really reject the pod placement on a particular node.
For example, in case of the image locality node, it ensures that pods are placed on a node that already
has the image.
But if there are no nodes available, it will anyway place the pod on a node that does not even have
the image.
So it's just a scoring that happens at this stage.
And finally, in the binding phase, you have the default binder plugin that provides the binding mechanism.
Now, the highly extensible nature of Kubernetes makes it possible for us to customize what plugins
go where, and for us to write our own plugin and plug them in here.
And that is achieved with the help of what is called as extension points.
So at each stage, there is an extension point to which a plugin can be plugged to.
In the scheduling queue, we have a short extension to which the Priority Sort plugin is plugged to,
and then we have the filter extension, the the score and the bind extension to which each of these
plugins that we just talked about are plugged two.
As a matter of fact, there's more.
So there are extensions before entering the filter phase called the Prefilter extension, and the and
after the filter phase called post filter.
And then there are Pre-score before the score extension point and reserve after the extension point,
the score extension point.
And then there is permit and pre bind before the bind and post bind after the binding phase.
So there are so many options available.
Basically you can get a custom code of your own to run anywhere in these points by just creating a plugin
and plugging it into the respective kind of point that you want to plug into.
And here is a little bit more details on some additional plugins that come by default that are associated
with the different extension points.
As you can see, some of the plugins span across multiple extension points, and some of them are just
within a specific extension point.
So that's what scheduling plugins and extension points are.
So the highly extensible nature of Kubernetes allows us to customize the way that these plugins are
called and, and write our own scheduling plugin if needed.
So having learned that, let's look at how we can change the default behavior of how these plugins are
called and and and how we can get our own plugins in there if it's really needed.
So taking a step back earlier, we talked about deploying three separate schedulers, each with a separate
scheduler binary.
So we have the the default scheduler and then the my scheduler and then the my scheduler to.
Now all of these are three separate scheduler binaries that are run with a separate scheduler config
file associated with each of them.
Now that's one way to deploy multiple schedulers.
Now the problem here is that since these are separate processes, there is an additional effort required
to maintain these separate processes.
And also more importantly, since they are separate processes, they may run into race conditions while
making scheduling decisions.
For example, one scheduler may schedule a workload on a node without knowing that there's another scheduler
scheduling a workload on that same node at the same time.
So with the 1.18 release of Kubernetes, a feature to support multiple profiles in a single scheduler
was introduced.
So now you can configure multiple profiles within a single scheduler in the scheduler configuration
file by adding more entries to the list of profiles, and for each profile, specify a separate scheduler
name.
So this creates a separate profile for each scheduler, which acts as a separate scheduler itself,
except that now multiple schedulers are run in the same binary as opposed to creating separate binaries
for each scheduler.
Now, how do you configure these different scheduler profiles to work differently?
Because right now all of them just simply have different names.
So they're going to work just like the default scheduler.
How do you configure them to work differently?
Under each scheduler profile, we can configure the plugins the way we want to.
For example, for the scheduler two profile, I'm going to disable certain plugins like the Taint and
Toleration plugin and enable my own custom plugins for the scheduler three profile.
I'm going to disable all the Pre-score and score plugins, so this is how that's going to look.
Under the plugins section, specify the extension point and enable or disable the plugins by name or
pattern as shown in this case.
So yeah, so that's about it.
I hope that gives you an overview of how schedulers and scheduler profiles work, and how you can configure
multiple scheduler profiles in Kubernetes.
To read more about this, check out the Kubernetes enhancement proposal that introduced Multi Scheduling
Profiles.
It's the cap 1451 um that introduced the multi scheduling profiles and the article uh on scheduling
framework.
Well that's all for now.
I will see you in the next one.

--- (2025 Updates)Admission Controllers ---

In this lecture we will learn about admission controllers.
So we've been running commands from our command line using the kubectl utility to perform various kinds
of operations on our Kubernetes cluster.
And we know every time we send a request say to create a pod, the request goes to the API server.
And then the pod is created and the information is finally persisted in the etcd database.
When the request hits the API server, we've learned that it goes through an authentication process,
and this is usually done through certificates.
If the request was sent through kubectl, we know the kube config file has the certificates configured,
and the authentication process is responsible for identifying the user who sent the request and making
sure the user is valid.
And then the request goes through an authorization process.
And this is when we check if the user has permission to perform that operation.
And we have learned that this is achieved through role based access controls.
So in this case, if the user was assigned this particular role of a developer, the user is allowed
to list, get, create, update or delete pods.
And so if the request that came in matched any of these conditions, in this case it does.
As the request is to create a pod it is allowed to go through.
Otherwise it's rejected.
So that's authorization with role based access control.
Now with role based access control, you could place in different kinds of restrictions, such as to
allow or deny those with a particular role to say, create, list or delete different kinds of objects
like pods, deployments or services.
We could even restrict access to specific resource names such as, say, a developer can only work on
pods named blue or orange, or restrict access within a namespace alone.
Now, as you can see, most of these rules that you can create with role based access control is at
the Kubernetes API level.
And what user is allowed access to what kind of API operations.
And it does not go beyond that.
But what if you want to do more than just define what kind of access a user has to an object?
For example, when a pod creation request comes in, you'd like to review the configuration file and
look at the image name and say that you do not want to allow images from a public Docker Hub registry.
Only allow images from a specific internal registry, or to enforce that, we must never use the latest
tag for any images.
Or say for example, you'd like to say if the container is running as the root user.
Then you do not want to allow that request or allow certain capabilities only, or to enforce that the
metadata always contains labels.
So these are some of the things that you can't achieve with the existing role based access controls.
And that is where admission controllers comes in.
Admission controllers help us implement better security measures to enforce how a cluster is used.
Apart from simply validating configuration, admission controllers can do a lot more, such as change
the request itself or perform additional operations before the pod gets created.
We will go over some examples in the upcoming slides.
There are a number of admission controllers that come pre-built with Kubernetes, such as always pull
images that ensures that every time a pod is created, the images are always pulled.
The default storage class admission controller that observes the creation of PVCs and automatically
adds the default storage class to them if one is not specified, the event rate limit admission controller
can help set a limit on the requests with the the API server can handle at a time.
To prevent the API server from flooding with requests, the namespace exists.
Admission controller rejects requests to namespaces that do not exist, and there are many more admission
controllers available.
So let's take that as an example and look at it in a bit more detail.
The namespace exists.
Admission controller.
Say we want to create a pod in a namespace called blue that doesn't exist.
If I run this command, it would throw an error that says the namespace blue is not found.
What's happening here is that my request gets authenticated, then authorized, and it then goes through
the admission controllers, The namespace exists.
That mission controller handles the request and checks if the namespace is available.
If it is not, the request is rejected.
The namespace exists.
Is a built in admission controller that is enabled by default.
There is another admission controller that is not enabled by default, and that is called as the namespace
auto provision admission controller.
This will automatically create the namespace if it does not exist.
We will see how it can be enabled in a minute.
First, to see a list of admission controllers enabled by default, run the kube API server command
and grep for enable admission plugins.
Now here you will see a list of admission controllers that are enabled by default.
The ones that are highlighted in green.
Note that if you're running this in a cube ADM based setup, then you must run this command within the
cube API.
Server control plane pod using the kubectl exec command first.
Like this.
To add an admission controller, update the enable admission plugins flag on the kube API server service
to add the new admission controller.
So if you're in a kube EDM based setup, then update the flag within the kube API server manifest file
as shown here on the right.
So the one on the left is if you're updating the kube API server service, and the one on the right
is if the API server is running as a pod in a cube based setup.
Similarly, to disable admission controller plugins, you could use the disable admission plugins flag.
Once updated, the next time we run the command to provision a pod in a namespace that does not exist
yet, the request goes through authentication, then authorization, and then the namespace auto provision
controller, at which point it realizes that the namespace doesn't exist, so it creates namespace automatically
and the request goes through successfully to create the pod.
If you list the namespaces now, you'll see that the namespace is automatically created.
So that's one example of how an admission controller works.
It can not only validate and reject requests from users, it can also perform operations in the backend
or change the request itself.
Note that the namespace, auto provision, and namespace exists.
Admission controllers are deprecated and is now replaced by the namespace lifecycle admission controller.
The namespace lifecycle admission controller will make sure that requests to a non-existent namespace
is rejected, and that the default namespaces such as default kube system and kube public cannot be
deleted.
Well, that's it for now.
Head over to the labs and practice our working with admission controllers, and I will see you in the
next lecture.

--- (2025 Updates)Lab – Admission Controllers ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates)Lab Solution: Admission Controllers ---

Instructor: In this video,
I'm gonna walk you through these solutions
for the admission controllers lab.
And for the first question,
it's asking what is not a function of admission controllers?
And the correct answer is authenticate users.
The admission controllers doesn't handle
any of the authentication side of things.
That actually takes place after the authentication.
The next question is asking
which admission controller is not enabled by default.
And so the way we can get this information is
by checking the enable-admission-plugins
in the Kube-apiserver help options.
So I do a kubectl get pods
-: n kube-system.
You'll see that we have the kube-apiserver-controlplane.
So I'm gonna do a kubectl exec -it,
and I'm gonna grep this pod
-: n kube-system.
Then I'm gonna run a specific command.
I'm gonna run the kube-apiserver,
and I'm gonna pass in the -h flag.
And what I want to do is I want to grep
for enable-admission-plugins.
And the output we're looking for is right here.
So it says admission plugins, that should be enabled,
in addition to the default enabled ones.
So this list right here is going to be the list
of all of the default enabled plugins.
And so we could see NamespaceLifecycle
is enabled by default,
so that's not the answer.
We'll take a look at MutatingAdmissionWebhooks.
If it shows up on this list,
that means it's enabled by default.
So here's MutatingAdmissionWebhook,
then we have ValidatingAdmissionWebhook,
however, we don't see NamespaceAutoProvision in this list,
so NamespaceAutoProvision is not enabled by default.
The next question is asking which admission controller
is enabled in this cluster which is normally disabled?
And so we have to go to the kube-apiserver.yaml.config,
so this is going to be in /etc/kubernetes/manifests
/kube-apiserver.yaml.
And what we want to do is
we can search for something by doing a forward slash,
and then searching for enable-admission-plugin.
And so you could see what is enabled
that wasn't enabled by default,
and that's gonna be NodeRestriction,
so this is the plugin that was enabled,
which isn't enabled by default.
And if you don't want to go into vi,
we can always just grep for this,
so I can say grep enable-admission-plugins,
and then passing the path to that specific file.
And so this is gonna show us
all the plugins that are enabled.
So NodeRestriction is the correct answer.
The next question is telling us to create
an nginx pod in the blue namespace,
and it points out that the blue namespace
has not been created yet,
and it explicitly tells us
to not create the namespace beforehand.
So let's copy this command,
which is going to create that pod,
and we can see that it throws an error,
because the namespace blue was not found.
Now the reason this ultimately failed
and it threw that error
was because Kubernetes has
a NamespaceExists admission controller enabled,
which rejects requests to namespaces that do not exist.
So if you wanted it
to automatically create a namespace for you,
you could enable
the NamespaceAutoProvision admission controller.
And for this question, that's going to be the task at hand.
We have to enable that specific admission controller.
And so to do that, we want to go back into that same file,
the /etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.
And we want to go down to the same line we looked at,
at one of the previous questions,
which is the enable-admission-plugins,
and we can see we just have NodeRestriction,
so we're just gonna add the new one after this.
So we'll just add a comma,
and then put in the name of
the new admission controller that you want enabled,
so that's gonna be NamespaceAutoProvision.
Then we'll save that.
And after we save that,
the API server is going to restart.
And we'll give this a couple minutes
before we run the validation,
'cause it takes a little while for it to restart.
All right, let's run the validation.
Okay, so now it's telling us
to run that nginx pod in the blue namespace again
and check to see if it succeeds.
So I'm just gonna hit the Up arrow a couple times,
we're gonna run the same command,
and once again, keep in mind,
right now the namespace blue does not exist.
So when we run this,
what should happen is
it should now create a namespace called blue.
So if I do a kubectl get namespace,
we can now see that the blue namespace
was created seven seconds ago,
and so that's because of that admission controller.
And this next question is just pointing out
that the NamespaceExists
and the NamespaceAutoProvision admission controllers
are deprecated and are now replaced
by the NamespaceLifecycle admission controller.
The next question is asking us
to disable the DefaultStorageClass admission controller.
So once again, we're gonna go into
the kube-apiserver.yaml manifests,
so I'm gonna do:
vi /etc/kubernetes/manifests/ kube-apiserver.
And just like we had the enable-admission-plugin,
we're going to add a disable-admission-plugin.
So I'm gonna go right below this line,
and I'm gonna say disable-admission-plugins=
and then we're gonna add DefaultStorageClass.
And, once again, after you make these changes,
the API server is gonna have to restart,
so give it a couple minutes,
and then we'll run the validation.
And for the final question,
it says that the kube-apiserver is running as a pod.
So you could check the process
to see enabled and disabled plugins.
So if we just copy this command,
this is going to list out all of the enabled
and disabled plugins with this command.
And that's going to wrap up the admission controller's lab.

--- (2025 Updates)Validating and Mutating Admission Controllers ---

In this lecture, we will take a closer look at the different types of admission controllers and how
we can configure our own admission controller.
We looked at the namespace exists or namespace lifecycle admission controller.
It can help validate if a namespace already exists and reject the request if it doesn't exist.
This is known as a validating admission controller.
Let's look at another type of admission controller plugin named as the default storage class plugin.
This is a plugin that is enabled by default.
Say for example, you're submitting a request to create a PVC.
The request goes through authentication, authorization, and finally the admission controller.
The default storage class admission controller will watch for requests to create a PVC and check if
it has a storage class mentioned in it.
If not, which is true in our case, it will modify your request to add the default storage class to
your request.
This could be whatever storage class is configured as the default storage class in your cluster.
So when the PVC is created and you inspect it, you will see that a storage class default is added to
it even though you hadn't specified it during the creation.
So this type of admission controller is known as a mutating admission controller.
It can change or mutate the object itself before it is created.
So those are two types of admission controllers.
Mutating admission controllers are those that can change the request, and validating admission controllers
are those that can validate the request and allow or deny it.
And there may be admission controllers that can do both that can mutate a request as well as validate
a request.
Now, generally mutating admission controllers are invoked first, followed by validating admission
controllers.
This is so that any change made by the mutating admission controller can be considered during the validation
process.
In this example, the namespace auto provisioning admission controller, which is a mutating admission
controller, is run first, followed by the validating controller namespace exists.
If it was run the other way, then the namespace exists.
Admission controller would always reject the request for namespace that does not exist, and the namespace
auto provisioning controller would never be invoked to create the namespace.
And when a request goes through these admission controllers, if any admission controller rejects the
request, the request is rejected and an error message is shown to the user.
Now, these are all built in admission controllers that are part of the Kubernetes source code and are
compiled and shipped with Kubernetes.
Now, what if we want our own admission controller with our own mutations and validations?
That has our own logic You support external admission controllers.
There are two special admission controllers available mutating Admission Webhook and then Validating
admission Webhook.
And this is what we will look at next.
We can configure these webhooks to point to a server that's hosted either within the Kubernetes cluster
or outside it.
And our server will have our own admission webhook service running with our own code and logic.
After a request goes through all the built in admission controllers, it hits the webhook that's configured.
We will see how to configure that in a bit.
And then and then once it hits the webhook, it makes a call to the admission webhook server by passing
in an admission review object in a JSON format.
This object has all the details about the request, such as the user that made the request and the type
of operation the user is trying to perform, and on what objects and the and details about the object
itself.
On receiving the request, the admission webhook server responds with an admission review object with
a result of whether the request is allowed or not.
If the allowed field in the response is set to true, then the request is allowed and if it's set to
false, it is rejected.
So how do we set this up?
First, we must deploy our admission webhook server, which will have our own logic, and then we configure
the webhook on Kubernetes by creating a webhook configuration object.
So let's take a look at each of these steps next.
So the first step is to deploy our own webhook server.
Now this could be an API server that could be built on any platform.
An example code of a webhook server written in go can be found here in the Kubernetes documentation
pages.
It's written in the go programming language.
You could develop your own server in other languages as well if required.
The only requirement is that it must accept the mutate and validate APIs and respond with a JSON object
that the web server expects.
So here's a pseudo code of a simple webhook server written in Python.
There are two calls a validate call and a mutate call.
The validate call receives the validation webhook request, and in this example compares the name of
the object and the name of the user who sent the request and rejects the request if it's the same name.
Well, just a simple sample use case to show what we can do with the requests that come in.
And if you look down, we'll see the mutating webhook which gets the username and responds with a JSON
patch operation of adding the username as a label to any request that was raised by anyone.
So if you take a closer look at this particular piece of code, a patch object is a list of patch operations,
with each operation being add, remove, replace, move, copy, or test.
And we then specify the path within the JSON object that needs to be targeted for change.
In this case, it is slash metadata slash label slash users.
And then the value that needs to be added if it is an add operation.
So we get the username from the request.
So that's going to be the value of that particular label.
This is then sent as a base64 encoded object as part of the response.
On a side note, from an exam point of view, you will not be asked to develop any code like this.
So don't worry if you don't fully understand this piece of code.
All you need to take away from this is that the admission Webhook server is a server that you deploy
that contains the logic or the code to permit or reject a request, and it must be able to receive and
respond with the appropriate responses that that the webhook expects.
So this is just a simple example to show what kind of things that you can do or what, what, what kind
of things that you can code and implement in the webhook server that you deploy.
Okay, so moving on.
Once we have developed our own webhook server, the next step is to host it.
So we either run it as a server somewhere or containerize it and deploy it within Kubernetes cluster
itself as a deployment.
If deployed as a deployment in a Kubernetes cluster, then it needs a service for it to be accessed.
So we have a service named Webhook Service as well.
The next step is to configure our cluster to reach out to the service and validate or mutate the requests.
For this, we create a validating webhook configuration object.
So we start with the API version kind metadata and webhooks section.
API version is admission registration.io v1.
Kind is validating webhook configuration.
If we are configuring a mutating webhook this would be a mutating webhook configuration.
We then give it a name.
Now under webhooks we configure the different webhooks.
So a webhook has a name, a client config and a set of rules.
So the name we set it to example.com.
The client config is where we configure the location of our admission webhook server.
If we deploy this server externally on our own, and that is not a part of a deployment in Kubernetes
cluster, then we can simply provide a URL path to that server like this.
Now instead, if we deployed the server as another service on our own cluster, as we see here as it
is on the left, then we can use the service configuration and provide the namespace and name of the
service, which in our case is webhook dash service.
Now of course, the communication between the API server and the webhook server has to be over TLS.
So a certificate bundle should be configured.
So the server has to be configured with a pair of certificates.
Then a Certificate.
ACA bundle is to be created and passed into this client config SCA bundle.
Next we must specify when to call our API server.
We can specify rules to configure exactly when we want our webhook server to be called for validation.
Now we might not want to do that for all of the calls.
For example, we may only want it to be called while creating pods, or deleting pods, or creating
deployments, etc. whatever that may be.
It can be added as a rule under the rules section using API groups, API versions, operation types
and resources.
In this example, we're only going to call this webhook configuration when calls are made to create
pods, and that should be it.
Once this object is created, every time we create a pod, a call would be made to the webhook service
and depending on the response, it would be allowed or rejected.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the labs and practice working with webhooks and I will see you in the next lecture.

--- (2025 Updates)Lab  – Validating and Mutating Admission Controllers ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates)Lab Solution: Validating and Mutating Admission Controllers ---

Instructor: In this video, I'm gonna walk you
through the validating
and mutating admission controllers lab.
The first question is asking,
which one of the below combinations is correct for mutating
and validating admissions controllers?
So for the first one,
it says that a namespace auto provision admission
controller is mutating.
And when you think about it, since it's automatically,
you know, creating a namespace
and changing something (indistinct), right?
That would be correct, and then the namespace exists.
Well that's gonna be validation
'cause it's validating to see if a namespace exists.
So the first one actually ends up being the correct answer.
If you take a look at the other ones,
namespace, auto provision, validating,
the auto provision is not validating,
it's actually just making a change for you.
Namespace exists is the validation.
So it's gonna be the first one.
What is the flow of invocation of the admission controllers?
Well, the way it goes is first it mutates,
and then it validates.
So it's going to be the first answer here.
Next question is asking us
to create a namespace called webhook dash demo.
So that's just gonna be kubectl create webhook,
create NS, webhook dash demo.
And if I do a kubectl get NS, we can see
our newly created namespace.
The next question is asking us to create a TLS secret
called webhook dash server dash TLS
for a secure webhook communication
in the webhook dash demo namespace.
And it's already created a certificate and a key,
and these are gonna be the respective paths
for both of those.
And so to create a TLS secret, we can do kubectl,
and we'll do dash N to provide the namespace,
that's gonna be the new webhook dash demo.
And then we're gonna create a secret
TLS, and then this'll be webhook dash server dash TLS.
And then I'm gonna go down to the next line
to keep everything pretty, dash dash cert.
And then now we provide the path to the cert.
So this is gonna be this path right here.
And then we're gonna provide the path to the key,
which is gonna be this path here.
And then we can hit Enter,
and then it was successfully created.
I'll then run the validation.
For the next question, it's asking us
to create a webhook deployment,
and they've already provided us
a sample deployment definition.
And so if you wanna take a look at that,
we can just do cat webhook, deployment dot yaml.
So we're gonna just deploy this,
and so all we have to do is do a kubectl apply,
dash F, and then we'll just call webhook deployment.
So that's been deployed.
And then for the webhook, we also need to create a service
so that it can communicate,
and we've already been provided a service configuration
that's gonna be in webhook dash service.
You can take a look at that if you want.
I'm gonna do a kubectl apply dash F, webhook dash service.
And a mutating webhook configuration has been supplied
to us under webhook dash configuration dot yaml.
And it's asking us if we apply this configuration,
which resource actions will it affect?
So let's actually take a look at this.
So we'll do webhook dash configuration,
and if you wanna figure out what it's doing,
go under the rule section,
and we can see that it works for operations
of creating on resources of pods.
So pod with the create operations.
Now we have to deploy the webhook configuration.
So once again, we'll just do a kubectl apply,
dash F webhook dash configuration.
So in the previous step, we deployed a demo webhook,
which does the following.
It denies all requests for a pod to run
as root in container if no security context is provided.
So if no value is set for run as non root, a default
of true is applied, and the user ID defaults to 1234.
In addition to, it allows a container to run
as root if the run as non root is explicitly set
to false in the security context.
So what we're gonna do is,
we're first going to test this out
by deploying a pod with no security context.
So there's been a configuration provided under pod
with defaults.
So you can see there's nothing provided
from a security context perspective.
So it's just gonna use the default,
so I'm gonna do a kubectl apply dash F,
and then we'll do pod dash with defaults.
And so it's, the next question's asking us,
what are the run as non root, and run as user values
for the previously created pod security context?
Because remember, we didn't explicitly provide this.
I'm gonna do a kubectl get pod,
and it's gonna be pod dash with defaults.
And then I'm gonna do a dash O yaml.
I wanna see the configuration.
And hold on, what is this called?
Get pod.
And I realize I forgot the S.
And so if we look for a security context,
we should see what it provided.
So we could see, when you provide nothing, it's going
to default to run as non root as true,
and the user's gonna be 1234.
So we wanna find run as non root true,
run as user 1234.
The next question is asking us to deploy a pod
with a security context,
explicitly allowing to run as root.
And this definition file for this has already been provided.
So if we take a look at pod with override, we can see
that the security context is set to run
as non root set to false.
So if you do a kubectl apply, so we can deploy this.
We can check this now, and go to the next question.
The next question is asking us to deploy a pod
with a conflicting security context.
So a pod with conflict dot yaml is gonna
provide the definition for that.
So if we take a look at that,
and we can see under security context, it said for run,
run is non root set to true.
And it's gonna say run as user of zero.
So we'll do a kubectl apply dash F,
and we should see that it's going to reject this
because we are asking to run as non root
with it set to true, but then run as user set to zero,
which is the root user.
So you can't have run as non root set to be true,
and then ask to be run as a root user.
So we would have to set it as false.
And so the validation was successful,
and it rejected the application,
or the creation of this pod.
And that's going to wrap up this lab session.

--- Logging and Monitoring - Section Introduction ---

In this section, we discuss about the various logging and monitoring options available.
We first see how to monitor the Kubernetes cluster components as well as the applications hosted on
them.
We then see how to view and manage the logs for the cluster components as well as the applications.
We practice what we learn through a set of fun and challenging exercises.
Well, I hope you like the upcoming lectures and practice tests.
So let's get started.

--- Monitor Cluster Components ---

In this lecture we talk about monitoring a Kubernetes cluster.
So how do you monitor resource consumption on Kubernetes?
Or more importantly, what would you like to monitor?
I'd like to know node level metrics, such as the number of nodes in the cluster, how many of them
are healthy, as well as performance metrics such as CPU, memory, network, and disk utilization,
as well as pod level metrics such as the number of pods and the performance metrics of each pod, such
as the CPU and memory consumption on them.
So we need a solution that will monitor these metrics, store them, and provide analytics around this
data.
As of this recording, Kubernetes does not come with a full featured built in monitoring solution.
However, there are a number of open source solutions available today, such as Metrics Server, Prometheus,
Elastic Stack, and proprietary solutions like Datadog and Dynatrace.
Hipster was one of the original projects that enabled monitoring and analysis features for Kubernetes.
You will see a lot of reference online when you look for reference architectures on monitoring Kubernetes.
However, hipster is now deprecated and a slimmed down version was formed, known as the Metrics Server.
You can have one metric server per Kubernetes cluster.
The metrics server retrieves metrics from each of the Kubernetes nodes and pods, aggregates them,
and stores them in memory.
Note that the metrics server is only an in-memory monitoring solution and does not store the metrics
on the disk, and as a result, you cannot see historical performance data.
For that, you must rely on one of the advanced monitoring solutions we talked about earlier in this
lecture.
So how are the metrics generated for the pods on these nodes?
Kubernetes runs an agent on each node known as the Kubelet, which is responsible for receiving instructions
from the Kubernetes API, master server, and running pods on the nodes.
The Kubelet also contains a subcomponent known as the C advisor or Container Advisor.
C advisor is responsible for retrieving performance metrics from Pods and exposing them through the
Kubelet API to make the metrics available for the metrics server.
If you're using minikube for your local cluster, run the command minikube add ons.
Enable metrics dash server for all other environments.
Deploy the metrics server by cloning the metric server deployment files from the GitHub repository,
and then deploying the required components using the kube control create command.
This command deploys a set of pods, services and roles to enable metrics.
Server to poll for performance metrics from the nodes in the cluster.
Once deployed, give the metrics server some time to collect and process data.
Once processed, cluster performance can be viewed by running the command kube control top node.
This provides the CPU and memory consumption of each of the nodes.
As you can see, 8% of the CPU on my master node is consumed, which is about 166 milli cores.
Use the kube control top pod command to view performance metrics of pods in Kubernetes.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Coding Exercises section and practice viewing performance metrics on Kubernetes cluster.
Thank you.

--- Lab - Monitoring Cluster Components ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution: Monitor Cluster Components ---

-: Okay, In this lab we get familiar
with monitoring cluster components.
So the first question is
we have deployed a few pods running workloads
so inspect them.
Let's do kubectl get pods command.
And we see that there are indeed three pods,
elephant, lion, and rabbit,
and they're all in a running state.
So let's go ahead
and what we need to do is monitor the resources consumed
by each of these pods.
And for that we need to deploy the metric server.
And for this, we have a get repo with the settings
for the metric server that will work for our labs.
So we're just going to use that.
But if you're trying this in your own environment
or for a production environment,
so remember do not use this for production use-cases
because there are changes that are in here
that are done just to make this work
with this particular lab exercise
and just to make it easy for us to deploy it.
So do not use this for a production use-case.
Always remember to refer to the official recommendation
on the metric server to deploy
one in your environment.
So let's wait for, okay, so this is cloned.
And if you look at this,
you have
the files here that are required
to deploy the metric server.
Let's go ahead. Okay.
So the next step is to deploy the metric server
by creating these components.
So we're just going to do a kubectl create-f.,
that creates all of the objects required
to deploy the metric server.
Okay, let's go next.
And at times it might take a few minutes
for the metric servers to start gathering
and reporting data.
And so if you do a kubectl top node, yeah,
it seems to be working already.
So yes, that's working now so we can proceed.
Okay, the next question is to identify the node
that consumes the most CPU.
So here you can see two nodes
and the CPU consumption of the two.
So node 01 has 57 milli cores
and the control plane consumes about 470 milli cores.
And if you look at it
the percentage is just 1%, but still
you can see there's a difference between the two.
And of course that's because the control plane
has all the control plane components running on it.
So to answer this question
the most CPU consumption is by the control plane.
So let's select that.
The next one is to identify the node
that consumes the most memory.
If you look at the memory consumption here, again,
we know we can see that
the control plane consumes most memory.
So answer to this is control plane again.
The next question is to identify the pod
that consumes the most memory.
So the pod this time.
So you can get that
by running the kubectl top pod command.
And here you can see the memory consumption
and the CPU consumption.
If you look at the memory consumption
you can see that it's rabbit.
Rabbit consumes the most memory.
So that's the answer to this is rabbit.
And the next question is to identify the pod
that consumes the least CPU.
So here you can see it's lion.
This consumes one milli core of CPU
so select lion and that should be it.
So basically that's a quick introduction
to deploying the metric server
and also just using the commands to
look at its reporting and identify basic information.
All right, thank you.

--- Managing Application Logs ---

In this lecture we will talk about various logging mechanisms in Kubernetes.
Let us start with logging in Docker.
I run a Docker container called Event Simulator, and all that it does is generate random events simulating
a web server.
These are events streamed to the standard output by the application.
Now, if I were to run the Docker container in the background in a detached mode using the dash D option,
I wouldn't see the logs.
If I wanted to view the logs, I could use the docker logs command followed by the container id.
The dash f option helps us see the live log trail.
Now back to Kubernetes.
We create a pod with the same Docker image using the Pod definition file.
Once the pod is running, we can view the logs using the kube control logs command.
With the pod name, use the dash f option to stream the logs live, just like the docker command.
Now these logs are specific to the container running inside the pod.
As we learned before, Kubernetes pods can have multiple Docker containers in them.
In this case, I modify my Pod definition file to include an additional container called image processor.
If you run the cube control logs command now with the pod name, which containers logs would it show?
If there are multiple containers within a pod, you must specify the name of the container explicitly
in the command.
Otherwise it would fail asking you to specify a name.
In this case, I will specify the name of the first container event simulator and that prints the relevant
log messages.
Now that is the simple logging functionality implemented within Kubernetes.
And that is all that an application developer really needs to know to get started with Kubernetes.
And that is all you really need to know as part of the certification program.
However, in the next lecture, we will see more about some advanced logging configuration and third
party support for logging in Kubernetes.
We also have a nice demo that shows how a popular logging framework is integrated with Kubernetes.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Coding Exercises section and practice working with logs.
Thank you.

--- Lab - Monitor Application Logs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution: Logging : (Optional) ---

-: Let's just now go
through the lab for managing application logs.
So we'll go through and review a few applications.
And then how to review the logs
of these applications and get useful in information.
Right?
So we've deployed a pod hosting an application inspected
and, wait for it to start, suspect you can get pods
and we see that it's running.
And let's click on, okay.
Now at user, user five
has expressed concerns accessing the application.
Identify the cause
and inspect the logs.
So let's take a look at the logs,
of this application.
And we see that there are
logs here and it says
user five.
So user five.
That's user five.
And we see that the, the cause is
the, the user failed to log in as the account is locked
due to too many failed attempts.
So it's account locked due to many failed attempts.
That's the correct answer.
Okay, the next one is,
now have
a new application deployed
as web app two.
And if you see a user is reporting issues
while trying to purchase an item.
Identify the user and the cause of the issue.
Inspect the logs of the web app.
So let's look at the logs.
Logs again.
Now it says a container name must be specified
for the Paul Web app, too.
So this is because if you look at this,
this web application has two containers and they're ready.
So if, if there are two containers
you must specify which containers' logs
is it that we wanna see.
So there's a simple web app and there's a db.
So we're looking at the
web application.
So, we'll just specify
web app
and we can see the logs.
And the question is,
a user is reporting issues while trying to purchase an item.
So we've gotta identify the user and the cause of the issue.
So if you look at this,
these are all normal events, but these are warnings.
So let's look at the warnings.
So user five, failed to log in.
That's not the issue here.
This one says user thirty order order failed as the
item is out of stock.
So that seems to be, and that's
those are the only two issues.
So this, this seems to be the correct one.
It's user thirty and item out of stock.
Okay, So that's a quick lab
for viewing logs of an application.

--- Application Lifecycle Management - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello, my name is Mumshad Mannambeth and we are going
through the certified Kubernetes Administrator's Course.
In this section, we discuss about
application life cycle management.
We start at rolling updates and rollbacks,
the different ways to configure
applications, scale applications,
before finally looking
at the primitives office health healing application.
We discuss a lot of these
in the certified Kubernetes Application Developers Course.
So if you have attended that already,
some of these may be repetitive for you.
If these topics seem familiar to you,
skip them or simply go through the practice desk.
We will start with rolling updates and rollbacks.

--- Rolling Updates and Rollbacks ---

In this lecture we will talk about updates and rollbacks in a deployment.
Before we look at how we upgrade our application, let's try to understand rollouts and versioning in
a deployment.
When you first create a deployment it triggers a rollout.
A new rollout creates a new replica set, which is recorded as a new deployment revision in the future
when the application is upgraded, meaning when the container version is updated to a new one, a new
rollout is triggered and a new deployment revision is created, named revision two.
This helps us keep track of the changes made to our deployment, and enables us to roll back to a previous
version of deployment if necessary.
You can see the status of your rollout by running the command kube control rollout status, followed
by the name of the deployment.
To see the revisions and history of rollout, run the Kube control rollout history command followed
by the deployment name, and this will show you the revisions and history of our deployment.
There are two types of deployment strategies.
Say for example you have five replicas of your web application instance deployed.
One way to upgrade these to a newer version is to destroy all of these, and then create newer versions
of application instances.
Meaning first destroy the five running instances and then deploy five new instances of the new application
version.
The problem with this, as you can imagine, is that during the period after the older versions are
down and before any newer version is up, the application is down and inaccessible to users.
This strategy is known as the recreate strategy, and thankfully this is not the default deployment
strategy.
The second strategy is where we do not destroy all of them at once.
Instead, we take down the older version and bring up a newer version one by one.
This way the application never goes down and the upgrade is seamless.
Remember, if you do not specify a strategy while creating the deployment, it will assume it to be
rolling.
Update.
In other words, rolling update is the default deployment strategy.
So we talked about upgrades.
How exactly do you update your deployment?
When I say update it could be different things, such as updating your application version by updating
the version of Docker containers used, updating their labels, or updating the number of replicas,
etc. since we already have a deployment definition file, it is easy for us to modify this file once
we make the necessary changes.
We run the kube control apply command to apply the changes.
A new rollout is triggered and a new revision of the deployment is created.
But there is another way to do the same thing.
You could use the kube control set image command to update the image of your application.
But remember, doing it this way will result in the deployment definition file having a different configuration.
So you must be careful when using the same definition file to make changes in the future.
The difference between the recreate and rolling update strategies can also be seen when you view the
deployments in detail.
From the cube control.
Describe deployment command to see the detailed information regarding the deployments.
You will notice when the recreate strategy was used.
The events indicate that the old replica set was scaled down to zero first, and then the new replica
sets scaled up to five.
However, when the rolling update strategy was used, the old replica set was scaled down one at a time,
simultaneously scaling up the new replica set one at a time.
Let's look at how a deployment performs an upgrade under the hood when a new deployment is created,
say, to deploy five replicas, it first creates a replica set automatically, which in turn creates
the number of pods required to meet the number of replicas.
When you upgrade your application, as we saw in the previous slide, the Kubernetes deployment object
creates a new replica set under the hood and starts deploying the containers there.
At the same time taking down the pods in the old replica set following a rolling update strategy.
This can be seen when you try to list the replica sets using the Kube control get replica sets command.
Here we see the old replica set with zero pods and the new replica set with five parts.
Say for instance, once you upgrade your application, you realize something isn't very right.
Something's wrong with the new version of build you used to upgrade.
So you would like to roll back your update.
Kubernetes deployments allow you to roll back to a previous revision To undo a change.
Run the kube control rollout undo command followed by the name of the deployment.
The deployment will then destroy the pods in the new replica set and bring the older ones up in the
old replica set, and your application is back to its older format.
When you compare the output of the cube control, get replica sets command before and after the rollback.
You will be able to notice this difference before the rollback.
The first replica set had zero pods and new replica set had five pods, and this is reversed after the
rollback is finished.
To summarize the commands real quick, use the cube control create command to create the deployment.
Get deployments command to list the deployments.
Apply and set image commands to update the deployments and rollout status command to see the status
of rollouts and rollout.
Undo command to roll back a deployment operation.

--- Lab - Rolling Updates and Rollbacks ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution: Rolling update ---

-: Okay. So in this lab
we're going to look at rolling updates and rollbacks.
So, rolling updates mainly.
So, I'm going forward and I'm going to try and use
the alias K for Kubectl.
So I've already set an alias
K for Kubectl so I'm gonna try and use that
going forward.
So, we have deployed a simple web application
inspected the pods and services.
So, let's do,
get pod.
So, there seems to be a set of front end pods.
Most likely there is a deployment.
So, there's a front end deployment which deploys four pods.
Then wait for the application to fully deploy and
view the application using the link called "Back Portal".
So, there is a link here you can click
to view the application
and it opens it up in a new window.
It's called,
it just says
"Hello, front end"
One moment.
Okay, so
let's look at the first or second question.
So, what is the current color of the web application?
So, if you look here, it is blue in color.
So, it's blue.
Now run the script named "cold test"
to send multiple requests to the web application.
So, we have world test here, so I'm gonna run that.
As you can see, all it does is it pings the application
and returns the color.
So, the color is blue.
And it just keeps running that for a few seconds.
So, that's done.
So, we're gonna use this script to run tests,
to kind of simulate accessing the web application by
either like multiple users or sending multiple requests
to the web application.
So, we'll use that to basically just do a small round
of tests on the application.
Now, inspect the deployment
and identify the number of pods deployed by it.
So, we just looked at that
and we saw that creates four pods.
So, it's four as the answer here.
Now, what container image is used to deploy the application?
So, let's look at the deployment
in more detail
and content.
And here we have the pod template.
We have containers image.
The image is code cloud/web app color V1.
So, it's this one right here.
That's the image we've used to deploy the application.
Now, inspect the deployment
and identify the current strategy.
If you look at this, we have the
strategy type given here and that is rolling update.
So, the ruling update is the current strategy.
Now, if you were to upgrade the application now,
what would happen?
So, we know that the rolling update
takes down one pod at a time and brings up the new pod.
It does not wait, it does not take all of it down and
and bring the new ones up.
So, the answer here,
"all ports are taken down before upgrading."
No, that's not the correct one.
"Pods are upgraded a few at a time."
So, that's the correct one.
Now, let us try that, upgrade the application
by setting the image on deployment to code cloud,
web app color v2.
So, we're going to update the image.
Now, one way to do that is you could do a Kubectle edit,
and deployment,
and front end,
and then go here and change the image.
Another way to do that
is just using the Kubectle set command.
So, you could do a set image,
run the help to find that out.
So, that's Kubectle set image.
You can, set deployment, deployment name
and then the container name and the image, right?
So, let's try that.
So, that's Kubectle set image
for the deployment.
The deployment name is front end and the container name,
we need to find out the container name. So let's do that.
Deploy, front end, the container name is
simple web app.
Okay, so let's do that again.
Kubectle, set image, deploy,
front end.
Container name is simple web app
=
test the image.
And that's updated. Let's make sure it's updated.
So on the described command again
and we see that the image is set to v2.
Okay, success.
So, let's run the curl test again and see what we're seeing.
So. we are still seeing blue, but we see green occasionally.
There's a lot of blue and there's some green.
So, green is the new version that we have deployed.
And blue is the older version.
And now we have a lot of green, right?
So, if you look at this, there was a lot of blue at first
and then there's some green,
and then there's green and blue at one point of time,
then we just have green.
So, that's how it's up updated the application deployment.
So, that's the rolling update.
Now after how many pods can be down for upgrade at a time,
consider the current strategy settings.
So, if you look at this, the strategy type is rolling update
which we've already seen.
There's rolling updates, strategy,
the additional details here. So, 25% max unavailable.
So, that means it's going to take down only 25%
of the pods at a time
before bringing the new ones up.
So, you have four replicas and 25% of that is just one.
So let's select one.
Change the deployment strategy to recreate
and delete and recreate the deployment if necessary.
So let's go ahead
and try and change the deployment strategy.
This is a Kubectle edit,
deployment,
front end.
And we'll just go here and
we'll just change this strategy type
to recreate.
And the recreate does not require the rolling update
parameters so we are just going to get rid of this.
Okay, and let's verify.
And you see the strategy type is changed to recreate.
Okay. So the next one is to upgrade the application
by setting the image on the deployment to v3.
So, currently we have v2,
and we've got to change it to v3.
And let's use the same command,
the Kubectle set image deploy command.
And we must change this to 3.
Okay, so that's updated.
And next, let's run the code test again.
And when we run this time, unlike the previous time,
we see a lot of failures, so some of the requests
are failing.
And this is because
it took down some of the pods
as part of the upgrade because we are doing a recreate.
So let's just give it some time.
If you look at the application here,
it says bad gateway.
Okay, and now you can see it's started to respond.
We have the red colors coming up and when we refresh this
you see we have application v3
and the red colors are coming up.
Okay, so that's the end of this lab.

--- Configure Applications ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Commands and Arguments in Docker ---

In this section we will talk about commands and arguments in a Pod definition file.
This is not listed as a required topic in the certification curriculum, but I think it's important
to explain as it is a topic that is usually overlooked.
Let's first refresh our memory on commands in containers and Docker.
We will then translate this into pods in the next lecture.
In this lecture we will look at commands, arguments and entry points in Docker.
Let's start with a simple scenario.
Say you were to run a Docker container from an ubuntu image.
When you run the docker run ubuntu command, it runs an instance of ubuntu image and exits immediately.
If you were to list the running containers, you wouldn't see the container running.
If you list all containers, including those that are stopped, you will see that the new container
you ran is in an excited state.
Now why is that?
Unlike virtual machines, containers are not meant to host an operating system.
Containers are meant to run a specific task or process, such as to host an instance of a web server
or application server, or a database, or simply to carry out some kind of computation or analysis.
Once the task is complete, the container exits.
A container only lives as long as the process inside it is alive.
If the web service inside the container is stopped or crashes, the container exits.
So who defines what process is run within the container?
If you look at the Docker file for popular Docker images like nginx, you will see an instruction called
cmd, which stands for command that defines the program that will be run within the container when it
starts.
For the nginx image, it is the nginx command.
For the MySQL image it is the MySQL command.
What we tried to do earlier was to run a container with a plain ubuntu operating system.
Let us look at the docker file for this image.
You will see that it uses bash as the default command.
Now bash is not really a process like a web server or database server.
It is a shell that listens for inputs from a terminal.
If it cannot find a terminal, it exits.
When we run the ubuntu container earlier, Docker created a container from the ubuntu image and launched
the bash program.
By default, Docker does not attach a terminal to a container when it is run.
And so the bash program does not find the terminal and so it exits.
Since the process that was started when the container was created finished the container exits as well.
So how do you specify a different command to start the container?
One option is to append a command to the docker run command.
And that way it overrides the default command specified within the image.
In this case, I run the docker run ubuntu command with the sleep five command as the added option.
This way when the container starts, it runs the sleep program, waits for five seconds and then exits.
But how do you make that change permanent?
Say you want the image to always run the sleep command when it starts.
You would then create your own image from the base ubuntu image and specify a new command.
There are different ways of specifying the command, either the command simply as is in a shell form,
or in a JSON array format like this.
But remember, when you specify in a JSON array format, the first element in the array should be the
executable.
In this case, the sleep program do not specify the command and parameters together like this.
The command and its parameters should be separate elements in the list.
So I now build my new image using the docker build command and name it as Ubuntu Sleeper.
I could now simply run the Docker ubuntu sleeper command and get the same results.
It always sleeps for five seconds and exits.
But what if I wish to change the number of seconds it sleeps?
Currently it is hard coded to five seconds.
As we learned before, one option is to run the docker run command with the new command appended to
it.
In this case, sleep ten.
And so the command that will be run at startup will be sleep ten.
But it doesn't look very good.
The name of the image, ubuntu Sleeper in itself implies that the container will sleep.
So we shouldn't have to specify the sleep command again.
Instead, we would like it to be something like this.
Docker run ubuntu sleeper ten.
We only want to pass in the number of seconds the container should sleep, and sleep command should
be invoked automatically.
And that is where the entry point instruction comes into play.
Entry point defines the executable command.
CMD provides default args as in.
You can specify the program that will be run when the container starts, and whatever you specify on
the command line.
In this case, ten will get appended to the entry point.
So the command that will be run when the container starts is sleep ten.
So that's the difference between the two.
In case of the CMD instruction the command line parameters passed will get replaced entirely, whereas
in case of entrypoint the command line parameters will get appended.
Now in the second case, what if I run the ubuntu sleeper image command without appending the number
of seconds?
Then the command at startup will be just sleep and you get the error that the operand is missing.
So how do you configure a default value for the command if one was not specified in the command line.
That's where you would use both entrypoint as well as the command instruction.
In this case, the command instruction will be appended to the Entrypoint instruction.
So at startup the command would be sleep five if you didn't specify any parameters in the command line.
If you did then that will override the command instruction.
And remember for this to happen, you should always specify the entry point and command instructions
in a JSON format.
Finally, what if you really, really want to modify the entry point during runtime, say from sleep
to an imaginary sleep 2.0 command?
Well, in that case, you can override it by using the Entrypoint option in the docker run command.
The final command at startup would then be sleep 2.0 ten.
Well, that's it for this lecture and I will see you in the next.

--- Commands and Arguments in Kubernetes ---

In this lecture we will look at commands and arguments in a Kubernetes pod.
In the previous lecture, we created a simple Docker image that sleeps for a given number of seconds.
We named it Ubuntu Sleeper and we ran it using the docker command Docker run ubuntu sleeper.
By default it sleeps for five seconds, but you can override it by passing a command line argument.
We will now create a pod using this image.
We start with a blank pod definition template, input the name of the pod and specify the image name.
When this pod is created, it creates a container from the specified image and the container sleeps
for five seconds before exiting.
Now, if you need the container to sleep for 10s as in the second command, how do you specify the additional
argument in the pod definition file?
Anything that is appended to the docker run command will go into the args property of the pod definition
file in the form of an array like this.
Let us try to relate that to the docker file we created earlier.
The docker file has an entry point as well as a cmd instructions Specified, the entry point is the
command that is run at startup, and the cmd is the default parameter passed to the command with the
args option in the Pod definition file.
We override the cmd instruction in the docker file.
But what if you need to override the entry point, say from sleep to an imaginary sleep 2.0 command?
In the Docker world, we would run the docker run command with the entry point option set to the new
command.
The corresponding entry in the pod definition file would be using a command field.
The command field corresponds to entry point instruction in the docker file.
So to summarize, there are two fields that correspond to two instructions in the docker file.
The command field overrides the entry point instruction, and the args field overrides the command instruction
in the docker file.
Remember, it is not the command field that overrides the cmd instruction in the docker file.
Well, that's it about commands and arguments in Kubernetes.
Head over to the Coding exercises section and practice viewing, configuring and troubleshooting commands
and arguments in Kubernetes.

--- Lab - Commands and Arguments ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Commands and Arguments (Optional) ---

-: Okay, in this video we're gonna go over
the lab on commands and arguments.
So let's start.
So the first question is, how many pods exist on the system?
So let's check the number of pods,
and there's just one pod.
The second question is
what is the command used to run the pod?
Now ubuntu-sleeper,
though we're going to look at the pod
in detail, and we'll see under the containers
we have the ubuntu container,
and here we have the command,
which is sleep 4800.
And I do not see any arguments
so that's the command.
So it's sleep 4800,
that's the command that's run by this pod.
So there's one right here.
Okay, so the next one is to create a pod
with the ubuntu image, to run a container to sleep
for 5000 seconds,
modify the file ubuntu-sleeper-2.
So there's already a file given
called ubuntu-sleeper 2.
It says simple part definition file,
you have containers, the name and image,
and we want to
set it to run sleep for 5000 seconds.
So let's modify this file,
and set a command,
and it has to be to sleep for 5000 seconds, right?
Sleep 5000.
Now remember that when you specify command,
the command is always an array, right.
So it has to be in an array format like this.
So that's the first thing.
So this is, that's one way of specifying an array.
And the other way is
to just have it like this,
this form of an array.
So sleep,
and then 5000.
So something like this, right?
So these are two forms.
You may follow any of them.
And this one right here,
this is still not in the correct form
because if you look at this,
this is an array of a single item.
So this array only has one item,
and that's called sleep 5000.
It's a single kind of item in the area.
Whereas here, it's two separate.
Now, one of the things to remember is
when you're specifying a command,
a command always have to have the command as the first item.
And that's basically, if you look at this, right,
sleep is the command, and 5000 is the argument.
So this has to be,
sleep has to be
a separate string,
a separate item in the array like this.
And the argument, you could specify the argument
either in the same command as another item,
or you could provide it as as an argument.
So that's, those are two other options.
So let's get rid of this.
Let's go with this.
So this is one approach.
The other is to specify arguments as args,
and provide the argument here and get rid of it here.
So this is,
this is more,
readable and straightforward.
So this way we know that
the command is sleep and the argument is 5000.
But even if you give the argument as a second array
it's ultimately going to combine them both
for running so that works too.
So that's...
That's that.
So let's go ahead and create
that file.
Let's make sure
pod enter sleep 2.
Okay, and here we see
that is in a running state
and you have the command and argument as 5000.
So let's give it a shot.
Okay, so that works.
As I said, it could also be just the command
as two elements in the area with sleep 5000 like this.
Okay, let's proceed.
The next task is to create a pod using the file
named ubuntu-sleeper-3.yaml.
There's another file.
Okay, and there's something wrong with it,
so try and fix it.
So taking a quick look, I don't see anything wrong with it.
So you have the image, you have the name,
you have the command and the argument
which is, also given as a command,
which is,
which is actually okay.
So let's try and create this
this pod.
And we see that it's a come back as a bad request.
And it says, "Cannot unmarshal number into
Go struct field containers,
spec containers command of type string."
So all the elements in the command must be a string,
you cannot have a number.
So this exercise was just to
kind of
make sure you know that
you don't accidentally put in a number instead of a string.
So let's create that.
Okay, that should be good.
Okay, So the next question is to update
the pod ubuntu-sleeper-3 to sleep for 2000 seconds.
So we have, let's try, you could pedal edit pod,
and it's ubuntu-sleeper-3.
And let's see what happens if we just try to edit it, right?
So we're going to just change the command
to 2000 seconds.
Let's try and save that.
If you see this, it did not go through,
and it says that this is forbidden
so pod updates may not change the fields other than these,
so the image and active deadline.
Again, so there are some,
some properties that you can change,
and there are some that you can't change.
So this here, right here
is a property that you cannot just directly edit.
So what we'll have to do is go out of it,
it's already created a file here with our edits,
so we can look at that.
It has a lot of other information
which can be ignored, but you can see that it has the edit.
So we could just do a kubectl replace,
place, and force,
and provide that file name.
So this is one approach that you can use.
And what it's gonna do is it's going to delete the pod
then recreate the new pod based on the edited one.
So this is one of the approach
you can use in the exam, if you have to edit something
that's not actually editable directly,
or you could edit the pod itself,
the pod definition that you have locally and update that.
And that's also, that's the best practice.
It's taking a while for the port to be terminated.
And as is mentioned before
and that's completely okay, that's unexpected behavior.
So when we try to delete a pod,
a kill signal is sent to the process that's running
in the container inside the pod.
And it depends on the process
and how much time it takes to handle the kill signal
and fully terminate the process.
So that's, that delay's expected.
Okay, so it's now updated.
Let's check the work.
Okay, so the next question is
to inspect a Dockerfile
under root
by the color
Dockerfile
and what command is run at the container startup.
So if you were to create an image
from this Dockerfile and run it,
what would be the command that's run at startup?
So we know that entry point is
is where is the command that's gonna be run,
so it's gonna be python app.py,
that's the command that would be run as startup.
So that's pretty straightforward.
Now let's look at Dockerfile 2.
And now you have entry point and the command argument.
Now we know that this in Docker, you have both of these.
And in this case what command is run
at the continuous startup.
So you have python app.py,
we know that that's the entry point,
and these are gonna be going
in as arguments for the entry point.
So it's gonna be python app.py followed by color red.
So python app.py and followed by color red.
Okay, the next one is to inspect the two files
under directory webapp-color-2.
So there's a directory called webapp-color-2
and there are two files.
First one is the Dockerfile,
and this is a
a similar file which has an entry point and,
and the CMD parameter.
And then we also have...
a web.
We also have a Kubernetes manifest file for pod.
And which uses this Dockerfile,
the image created from this Dockerfile,
so that's what it says here.
Assume the image was created from the Dockerfile.
So first we create an image from this
and then we use that image here.
And when we do that
here we are overriding the command with color green.
So what would be the end result?
So as we learned from the lecture
the command always overrides the entry point.
And if we had arguments
then that would override this command here.
So in this case, the command overrides the entry point,
so that's gonna be color green.
That's, the command I would start with.
So it's not going to be any of this,
it's actually going to be this.
It's not even going to run the app.py.
Okay, and the next question is
to explore the files under another directory.
So let's go to
webapp-color-3.
There are two files there.
So we have webapp-color-3
followed by
Dockerfile-2 so that's a similar Dockerfile.
And then there's,
there's a bug definition file as well.
So again, it's the same kind of question.
You have an entry point and the command here.
Then you have command and arguments here.
So as we know, this is,
both of these are gonna override both of these,
so is the ultimate command that's gonna be run
is python app.py followed by the color pink.
So python app.py followed by the color pink.
Okay, so the final question is to create a part
with the given specifications.
These, by default, it displays a blue background
and set the given command line arguments
to change it to green.
Okay, so when we run this command,
so let's first start with the command to create a pod.
So we're gonna do a kubectl run
and then followed by the pod name, which is webapp-green
and then followed by the image,
which is the code cloud webapp color image.
And then you have the command line arguments
that we need to pass, which are color green.
Now, what it says is by default, it runs,
it actually runs, it displays a blue background,
but we want,
that's the behavior of this particular image.
We want it to,
to run in the green color,
and that's,
that can be done by passing in this additional argument.
So all we need to do is kind of create this
and then pass in an additional argument.
And one way to do that is we can create a manifest file.
So we could do a dry-run=client
and then output
this to AMO format.
Sorry, clicked that wrong.
Okay, and then we can go in
and add the args section here.
So that's one way to do it, but something like this,
we should be able to do it
in a much easier, more straightforward way.
So let me explain how that is.
So for example, in general
if I had this application locally I would run python app.py
or if there's an executable cob:web app
I would actually run web app, something like this.
And then if changing the color is an option
then it would be as easy
as just specifying the color to be green, right?
So the same way
running this application
on Kubernetes has to be as easy as that.
So basically all you should be able to do
is keep kubectl run and then whatever is the name
of whatever that it is, the name of that application,
so web app followed by, you know, the image name and stuff.
And also it should be as easy to customize it
by just passing in the color and color like this.
So once this, once this application is containerized
and a Docker image is built out of it
it should be as easy as something like this, right?
So there's, there is an option for that.
If you look at the help of the kubectl run command
you'll see that
out of all of these options
there's a section here where you can pass
in additional arguments, right?
So here it says
I run the Nginx port, but use custom arguments.
So here you have the name, the image
but then you have this double dash
and then you have all the arguments, right?
So there are arguments, if you look at this command
there are arguments that are specific for,
for the kubectl utility.
So you have image which is specifically
for the kubectl utility
and there may be many other arguments
such as all of these dry run labels.
All of these are for the kubectl utility,
but then the application that runs inside Nginx
or the simple web app that we are running
that also has options that are very similar to this.
So in order to differentiate between the options
for kubectl and the options
for the application that's running within the container
and to specify those, all of those on the same command line
you have this double dash option.
So this basically separates the options
for the kubectl utility
and the options that are going to go through
to the Nginx application running inside, right?
So anything that's before this are specifically options
for the kubectl utility.
And anything that goes in after this
which may also look very much like these,
they are going to be passed through
to the Nginx application that's running inside, right?
So that's, that's the reason why you have this double dash.
So if you just use the double dash
and then pass in anything, all of these are gonna be options
for the application running inside.
And then if you want to override the command itself,
not just the arguments, but the command itself
then you could use the dash dash command option.
And again, remember that's before, but if you do that
then you can also provide a command
and a set of arguments after it, right?
So that's why you have this double dash.
So let's, let's try and use that approach for this, right?
So let's do a kubectl run
followed by webapp-green
and the image is,
this, okay?
And now we want to pass in the arguments
and the arguments are just color green.
So we're going to put the double dash in.
And now anything I specify now is gonna be
an option that won't be considered by kubectl
but it'll be considered by this,
this process running inside.
So I'm gonna say color and I'm gonna say green, right.
So these are gonna be passed through.
And if I want to, let's say,
so this is gonna be basically
generate the command called python then app.py
followed by color and green.
But if I want to update python 5000 itself,
then I could pass in this command option
and then pass in the command here,
like python, let's say app 2.py or something like that.
In this case we don't, we're not going to do that.
So I'm going to remove that
and just pass this through.
Okay, so let's create it, let's check it out.
If you look at this, you have args color green
and the command is already built
into the web app as, as the entry point, right?
So we're not going to touch that.
Here we, we have just passed through the,
the green color.
Okay, let's check our work.
Alright, so that's, that's about it.
I hope that was informational
and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Configure Environment Variables in Applications ---

In this lecture we will see how to set an environment variable in Kubernetes.
Given a Pod definition file which uses the same image as the docker command, we ran in the last lecture
to set an environment variable, use the env property.
Env is an array, so every item under the env property starts with a dash indicating an item in the
array.
Each item has a name and a value property.
The name is the name of the environment variable made available with the container, and the value is
its value.
What we just saw was a direct way of specifying the environment variables using a plain key value pair
format.
However, there are other ways of setting the environment variables, such as using configmaps and secrets.
The difference in this case is that instead of specifying value, we say value from and then a specification
of configmap or secret.
We will discuss about Configmaps and secret keys in the upcoming lectures.
That's it for this lecture and I will see you in the next.

--- Configuring ConfigMaps in Applications ---

In this lecture we will discuss how to work with configuration data in Kubernetes.
In the previous lecture we saw how to define environment variables in a Pod definition file.
When you have a lot of Pod definition files, it will become difficult to manage the environment data
stored within the various files.
We can take this information out of the Pod definition file and manage it centrally using configuration
maps.
Config maps are used to pass configuration data in the form of key value pairs in Kubernetes.
When a pod is created, inject the configmap into the pod so the key value pairs are available as environment
variables for the application hosted inside the container in the pod.
There are two phases involved in configuring Configmaps.
First, create the Configmap and second, inject them into the pod just like any other Kubernetes object.
There are two ways of creating a Configmap.
The imperative way without using a config map definition file and the declarative way by using a config
map definition file.
If you do not wish to create a config map definition file, you could simply use the cube control create
config map command and specify the required arguments.
Let's take a look at that first.
With this method, you can directly specify the key value pairs in the command line to create a config
map of the given values.
Run the cube control.
Create config map command.
The command is followed by the config name and the option from literal.
The firm literal option is used to specify the key value pairs in the command itself.
In this example, we are creating a config map by the name appconfig with a key value pair of app color
equals blue.
If you wish to add additional key value pairs, simply specify the from literal options multiple times.
However, this will get complicated when you have too many configuration items.
Another way to input configuration data is through a file.
Use the from file option to specify a path to the file that contains the required data.
The data from this file is read and stored under the name of the file.
Let us now look at the declarative approach for this.
We create a definition file just like how we did for the pod.
The file has an API version kind metadata instead of spec.
Here we have data.
The API version is v1.
The kind is configmap.
Under metadata we specify a name for the Configmap.
We will call it App.config under data and the configuration data in a key value format.
Run the cube control, create command and specify the configuration file name.
So that creates the App.config Configmap map with the values we specify.
You can create as many config maps as you need in the same way for various different purposes.
Here I have one of my application, other for MySQL and another one for redes.
So it is important to name the config maps appropriately as you will be using these names later while
associating it with pods.
To view config maps, run the kube control.
Get Configmaps command.
This lists the newly created config map named Appconfig.
The describe configmaps command lists the configuration data as well under the data section.
Now that we have the config map created, let us proceed with step two.
Configuring it with a pod.
Here I have a simple pod definition file that runs my simple web application.
To inject an environment variable, add a new property to the container called env from the env from
property is a list so we can pass as many environment variables as required.
Each item in the list corresponds to a config map item.
Specify the name of the config map we created earlier.
This is how we inject a specific config map from the ones we created before creating the pod definition
file.
Now creates a web application with a blue background.
What we just saw was using config maps to inject environment variables.
There are other ways to inject configuration data into pods.
You can inject it as a single environment variable, or you can inject the whole data as files in a
volume.
We will look at some of these options in the coding exercises that accompany this lecture.
So head over to the coding exercises section and practice viewing, configuring and troubleshooting
environment variables on a live Kubernetes environment.

--- Lab: Env Variables ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Env Variables (Optional) ---

-: Okay, let's go over the lab for environment variables.
So the first question is how many pods exist on the system?
You see that there's just one pod.
Now, what is the environment variable name set
on the container in the pod?
So let's take a closer look at the pod.
Okay? And here we see the environment variable
is defined here, and it's app color is set to pink.
So it's app underscore color.
Now what is the value set
on the environment variable app color.
It is pink.
Now view the web application UI
by clicking on the web app color pink here.
So clicking on this opens
up the web application and it is indeed pink in color.
Now, update the environment variable
on the pod to display a green background
and delete and recreate the pod required.
So we are going to
do a kubectl edit
pod
and web app color
pod.
Now we know that it may not allow us
of course it's not gonna allow us to edit this on the pod
but we don't really care
because we just need the edited or updated manifest file
that we can then use to replace the pod.
So I'm just going to set it to green here and try and save
but it's going to come back saying it's forbidden
which is fine.
Just going to exit out of that.
But here we have the file
which has our edits.
If you look at it, you have the value green here.
So let's use that to replace
with force
to kill the existing pod
and let's run that and wait
for that pod to be deleted
and the new pod to be created.
Okay.
Let's check the work.
That's done.
Let's click on the link here and we see that it is green.
Let's proceed.
Okay, so the next question is about config maps.
So how many config maps exist in the default name space?
So
I'm gonna do a kubectl get config map
and we see that there are two.
Okay, the next question is to identify the database host
from the config map TB config.
So we're gonna do a kubectl describe
and use the short form for config map, which is cm.
And then DB config is the name of the config map.
So here you can see information that's in the config map.
So you have the DB host, the DB name, DB port
and what we are asked here is to identify the DB host
which happens to be SQL zero one dot example dot com.
So let's select that.
Now, create a new config map
for the web app color pod and using the spec below.
So we now have to create a new config map.
So we're gonna do a kubectl create config map.
Let's take a look at the help.
And here is the syntax.
I'm just showing these help commands.
So you could use, you could follow the same approach
in your exams
to get the commands easily.
So here we're given the data
which is app color equals dark blue.
This is what needs to go within the config map.
And so we don't want the the from file option.
What we want is the from literal option.
So something like this, we can use that command
and it is going to replace the name
with web app config map.
And this is going to be
color equals dark blue.
Let's verify.
Okay, so the config map is created
and you have the data app app color
and it's set to dark blue.
Let's proceed.
Now, update the environment variable
on the pod to use the newly created config map.
So now we've got to go and update the pod.
So we have to do kubectl edit pod
web app color
and here we have the environment variable.
So currently the environment variable is set directly
as name and value here.
But what we want to do is we want to get rid
of this and we want to
we want to get the environment variables from config map.
So we have to use the ENV from syntax.
So if you're not sure how that works
We go to Kubernetes documentation
and look at config map
and look at examples.
So here you have configure a pod to use a config map.
So this is basically what we want.
So here you have a config map creation steps.
What we want to do is find out
how to use config maps as environment variables
using config map data
something like this.
So you have, so you could either do this format
where you have specify environment variable, each one
and then you use a value from
and then specify the config map.
Or we could fit
in an entire config map itself using the ENV from.
So that's what we're going to choose here.
So something like this.
So we need ENV from, and then
config map ref.
So we're gonna copy that.
And here we're going to get rid of this.
Place that here.
And this should be
web app config app.
Okay, let's go ahead and try and save that.
It's not gonna work.
So we're just going to exit
from that and we'll use this file
to recreate.
We're gonna force replace and then pass in the file.
Let's wait for the part to be deleted and recreated.
Okay, so that's done.
Let's verify that it's done correctly.
Okay, so here we see the containers, the web app color
and we have the environment variables
from the config map configured here.
So let's go ahead and check our work.
That's correct.
And let's verify that it is dark blue.
Yep. So the web app has now changed its color to dark blue.
Okay, So that's the end of this lab.

--- Secrets ---

Welcome to this lecture on secrets in Kubernetes.
Here we have a simple Python web application that connects to a MySQL database.
On success, the application displays a successful message.
If you look closely into the code, you will see the host name, username and password hardcoded.
This is of course not a good idea.
As we learned in the previous lecture, one option would be to move these values into a config map.
The config map stores the configuration data in plain text format.
So while it would be okay to move the host name and username into a config map, it is definitely not
the right place to store a password.
This is where secrets come in.
Secrets are used to store sensitive information like passwords or keys.
They are similar to config maps, except that they are stored in an encoded or hashed format.
As with config maps.
There are two steps involved in working with secrets.
First, create the secret and second, inject it into pod.
There are two ways of creating a secret.
The imperative way without using a secret definition file and the declarative way.
By using a secret definition file with the imperative method, you can directly specify the key value
pairs in the command line itself to create a secret of the given values.
Run the cube control.
Create secret generic command.
The command is followed by the secret name and the option from literal.
The from literal option is used to specify the key value pairs in the command itself.
In this example, we are creating a secret by the name app secret with a key value pair db underscore
host equals MySQL.
If you wish to add additional key value pairs, simply specify the from literal options multiple times.
However, this could get complicated when you have too many secrets to pass in.
Another way to input the secret data is through a file.
Use the from file option to specify a path to the file that contains the required data.
The data from this file is read and stored under the name of the file.
Let us now look at the declarative approach.
For this we create a definition file just like how we did for the config map.
The file has API version kind metadata and data.
The API version is v1.
Kind is secret.
Under metadata specify the name of the secret.
We will call it app secret under data.
Add the secret data in a key value format.
However, one thing we discussed about secrets was that they are used to store sensitive data and are
stored in an encoded format.
Here we have specified the data in plain text, which is not very safe.
So while creating a secret with a declarative approach, you must specify the secret values in a hashed
format.
So you must specify the data in an encoded form like this.
But how do you convert the data from plain text to an encoded format on a Linux host?
Run the command echo n followed by the text you're trying to convert, which is MySQL in this case,
and pipe that to the base64 utility.
To view secrets.
Run the kube control.
Get secrets command.
This lists the newly created secret along with another secret previously created by Kubernetes for its
internal purposes.
To view more information on the newly created secret, run the Kube control describe secret command.
This shows the attributes in the secret, but hides the value themselves.
To view the values as well.
Run the Kube control.
Get secret command with the output displayed in YAML format using the O option.
You can now see the hashed values as well.
Now how do you decode these hashed values?
Use the same base64 command used earlier to encode it, but this time add a decode option to it.
Now that we have secret created, let us proceed with step two.
Configuring it with a pod.
Here I have a simple pod definition file that runs my application to inject an environment variable.
Add a new property to the container called env from the env from property is a list so we can pass as
many environment variables as required.
Each item in the list corresponds to a secret item.
Specify the name of the secret we created earlier.
Creating the pod definition file now makes the data in the secret available as environment variables
for the application.
What we just saw was injecting secrets as environment variables into the pods.
There are other ways to inject secrets into pods.
You can inject as single environment variables or inject the whole secret as files in a volume.
If you were to mount the secret as a volume in the pod, each attribute in the secret is created as
a file with the value of the secret as its content.
In this case, since we have three attributes in our secret, three files are created, and if we look
at the contents of the dbpassword file, we see the password in it.
That's it for this lecture.
Head over to the coding exercises and practice working with secrets.

--- Lab - Secrets ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Additional Resource ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Secrets (Optional) ---

-: Okay, so let's go through the lab for secrets.
So the first question is, how many secrets
exist on the system in the default name space?
So we're going to do a kubectl,
get secrets.
And there's just one.
So the answer is one.
How many secrets are defined in the default token secret?
So, I'm going to do a kubectl describe
secret.
And we see additional details.
And under the data section we have multiple details.
So we have the CS search, that's one.
And then you have the name space
and then you have the token.
And this, this entire text here
is the encoded
token.
So we have three.
That's the answer for that.
Now, what is the type of the default token secret?
So the type, as you can see,
it is a Kubernetes service account token.
So that's the type.
Now which of the following is not a secret data
defined in the default token?
So we know that the data is ca.cert, namespace, and token.
So that's namespace, CAcert and token, type is not a data.
So that's the answer to that.
Okay so, we're going to deploy an application
with the below architecture,
and we have already deployed the required pods and services.
Check out the pods and services created
and check out the web application,
using the web app, MySQL link, about.
So, let's first
check out
the deployment.
There are no deployments.
Let's check pods.
So there are two pods.
So you have a web app pod and a, and a MySQL pod.
So you have the MySQL pod,
and this is the web app pod.
And then there are two services.
So,
let's check services.
And there are, this we know is a default Kubernetes service
but you also have the web app service,
which happens to be this and the SQL zero one,
and SQL zero one
service,
which happens to be this.
So those are the services.
And then, secret.
So there's a default token secret,
but that's not the secret that's used here.
So the secret is required for the web application
to connect to the MySQL database.
So let's check the application status.
And here we can see that it's in a failed state.
It says," Failed connecting to the MySQL database."
The database host is not set.
The DB is not set.
And the password it is not set.
So, that's the error.
Let's proceed.
So the reason the application has failed
is because we have not created the secret object yet.
So let's create a new secret named, TB Secret,
with the data given below, so...
Let's create a secret.
So kubectl, create
secret,
and let's quickly check the help.
So when you create a secret,
you have to specify the type of secret.
So we're not gonna create a Docker registry or TLS.
We're just going to create a generic secret.
So let's check the help for that.
And
here we see
the syntax is to create, to create a secret,
is to specify secret generic,
and then the name of the secret,
followed by the data from a file.
Or,
it could be from multiple files.
Or it could just be from litter,
from literally on the,
just from the command line.
So we're gonna use this approach,
'cause we have the information right here.
So let's
do that.
Secret generics, don't forget generic.
The name of the secret is, DB Secret.
The, then we have from
literal,
DB post
equals SQL
zero one.
And then from
literal, again,
DB
user equals root.
And remember to, remember that these are case sensitive.
And then from literal again,
end DB
password equals
password one, two, three.
Let's verify
if it's created.
Describe DB
secret.
Describe secret.
End DB secret.
We see that it's created with the data DB host,
DB user and DB password.
Okay?
Okay, so that's a success.
Next is to configure a web app pod
to load environment variables from the newly created secret.
So,
let's check
pod out first.
So we have
the web app
pod,
and
currently
there are no secrets.
So,
let's edit the pod,
to add the secret.
But, if we don't know
how to do that,
let's first review the Kubernetes documentation pages
and look at secrets.
And let's go to the first one.
Okay, so we are at the page for secrets.
And here as you can read,
you must not create secret, as we created just now,
to store database credentials or, or passwords.
That's because data, the secret data is stored
in at CD as is, without any encryption.
So anyone who has access to the APS server can,
or, or that CD database
can read or even modify the secret, right?
So, we must enable the encryption at rest
or, or looking to enabling roll back,
role-based taxes controlled.
And so let's, let's go ahead and configure the secret,
find information on configuring the secret for the pod.
So you can see that here.
So here you have using a secret
and then you also have using secrets
as environment variables.
So there are multiple options here.
And
here's what, here's one that we could use
which is the envFrom what we did for the ConfigMap.
So we could use the envFrom and then specify
a secret key reference.
That way all the data stored in the secret
is gonna be passed through as environment variable.
So let's copy that.
And,
that's going to go into
the container section.
We can have this anywhere,
space that and the key name
should be
DB Secret.
Okay, let's save the file.
And I'm gonna allow us to edit it.
That's fine, we're gonna quit.
And let's do a Kubectl, replace, force...
and specify the file.
And we will just wait for the file,
for the pod to be deleted and recreated.
Okay, so that's done.
And let's verify
the pod.
We see that the environment variables
are read from the DB secret.
Okay, let's check this out.
Okay, that's configured correctly.
And let's go back and review the web application.
And we see that it's now a success.
It's able to read the environment variables
as we passed through, right?
And, yeah, of course remember, we should not,
you know, read passwords and display it like this.
But this is, this is a sample application
to prove how secrets can be passed
through as environment variables.
And this kind of helps us debug
if something is not passed through right.
Okay, so that's the end of this lab.

--- Demo: Encrypting Secret Data at Rest ---

Instructor: Okay, so in this video,
we're going to look into encrypting secret data at rest.
So if you go to the Kubernetes documentation pages
and under Tasks, you have Administer a Cluster
and Encrypting Secret Data at Rest,
you have these following documents.
I'm gonna follow this, but also kind of try and explain
what we are trying to do.
So the first thing, first things first,
I'm going to start up a Kubernetes playground.
So this is a single node cluster.
All right, so
this basically uses,
it is built with the kubeadm tool and has containerd.
I'm just gonna maximize this
and we'll just work on the terminal.
All right, so first things first,
I'm gonna first create a secret object.
So I'm going to do a kubectl create secret,
and I want a generic secret, so I'll do that,
and I'll probably create a secret from literal,
so I'm just going to copy this command.
Okay, so I'm gonna call it key1 and supersecret.
So that's my secret object.
So my secret object is created.
So if I now do a get secret,
I get to see my secret object.
And if I do a describe secret,
my-secret,
I get to see the secret name and the data.
If I wanna see a little bit more, I do a
dash o yaml
and I'm gonna do a get secret.
Okay and I get to see the data here.
Now if you look here, so this is key1,
and this is kind of the encoded format of the secret.
So remember that, you know, anyone could take this
and decode it and easily view the actual secret, right?
So if I do,
let me see if I have base64,
yup, I do.
So
gonna get that again.
So I'm gonna do a echo,
copy and paste this.
Let's pass it through base64 and do a decode.
And I get to the, the secret.
Okay, so that's the first thing to know
that the secrets object stored in the secret configuration
as you see it here is just Base64 encoded.
So if you just do a base64 decode, you're gonna see this.
So remember not to create your secret definition files
and push it to GitHub or something
because anyone could just pick this up and run this command
and see the secret, right?
So that's the first step, but I wanna make it clear
that the scope of this video is not really relevant
to this encoding here.
We are going to focus on the data
that's stored within the etc server.
Okay, so after we are done,
this part is still gonna remain the same.
So we're not really focusing on this part right here.
What we're focusing on
is how the data is stored in the etcd server,
so that's the focus.
So let's first look at how this data is stored
in the etcd server.
Okay, so for that, if you go to the bottom of this,
there is this command.
It uses the ETCDCTL_API version three.
It runs the etcdctl command,
passing the CA certificates for authentication,
and we're gonna get this particular secret.
So the way that it's stored in etcd
is it's stored in registry/secrets/default
and this is the secret name.
So let me first see if we have the etcdctl command line.
So we don't have that,
so the first step is to get that installed.
So I'm just gonna go apt-get install.
I think it's it etcd-client.
Yup, so if you do not have the etcd,
so remember that the etcd server is running in a pod.
So you can either ssh into the pod
and then run the etcdctl command from within that.
Or you wanna run it locally from your control plane node,
you could use the etcdctl client utility.
Now, if the client command line utility is not available,
you have different options
to install it on different systems.
So let me see.
Okay, so I have it installed on my machine
using the package etcd-client.
So look up for whatever it is
the version of etcd that you're running.
Okay, so that's there, so now we've got etcdctl utility.
So remember that's client only,
the server is still running on as a pod.
So if you do kubectl get pods dash kube-system,
I have the etcd control plane here, right?
Okay, so the next step is to run this.
So first, remember that you need the certificate files.
So let's see if we have that.
Yup, we do.
So under etcd, you have all the certificates files needed
for connecting or authenticating to the etcd server.
So that's good.
So I'm gonna copy this command.
Remember to set the version, ETCDCTL_API version to three,
and the name of the secret is secret1.
See what I created,
get secret,
so it's named my-secret,
so I'm gonna replace that with my-secret.
I'm gonna do a my-secret.
If I just run this command,
you can see that it kind of gives me
kind of a jumbled information,
but you can kind of see the secret there as is, right?
You can see the secret there in the text format.
To see it in this format,
you just need to append the hexdump to it
because sometimes you may not be able to see it
in the right format.
So this is the data that's stored in etcd.
And if you look closely,
you'll see that the secret that I have,
the password or whatever it is that I've stored,
is actually visible like this.
So the data is stored in etcd in an unencrypted format.
So anyone with access to etcd
will be able to just go through and get all the secrets
and other confidential information
stored as a secret object.
So that's the problem here.
So this is the problem that we are trying to solve
by enabling encryption at rest in etcd.
Now, if you go through this document,
first thing that it says is,
first we need to determine if encryption at rest
is already enabled or not.
So this is done with a property
called encryption-provider-config.
So if I go to my kube-api server,
so let's say my kube-api server
is running as a process here,
and let me just grep for kube-api server,
and I get to see the Kube API server process running
with all the options.
Let's first see if it has
the encryption-provider-config option.
So that's the first thing that we'll do.
This is to check if encryption at rest is already enabled.
And as you can see, it does not return a result.
So that means this option is not configured.
We can also kind of verify this
because this is a kubeadm setup,
it uses the
var
/manifest
etc/
kubernetes/manifests,
yeah, etc/kubernetes/manifests,
and here you have the kube-apiserver.
So configuration, so if you look at this particular file,
you can do a cat,
we'll be able to see all the options provided.
And here, you don't see the encryption option
that we've talked about here.
So this means that encryption at rest is not enabled.
So that's the first step, and we've already verified that
by creating the secrets object.
Okay, so the next step is to create a configuration file
and then pass it in as this particular option.
So that's it, so that's basically the steps required
to enable encryption, right?
You create a configuration file
and you pass it in as an option.
So let's look at the configuration file.
So this is what it is, so you have the API version,
you have the kind, it's encryption configuration,
and then you have resources.
Now, you can pick and choose
which resources you want to encrypt, right?
So you have pods and deployments and secrets and services.
Do you want to store all of them as encrypted?
You might not because not everything is confidential, right?
So you need not necessarily encrypt
and save all the data about pods and deployments.
Here our concern is just secrets.
So under Resources, you specify the targets.
So this is secrets, that means only the secret objects
are going to be encrypted.
Now, you can encrypt something
using a set of providers, right?
So the default one is called identity.
The identity provider just means
that there's no encryption at all.
So you can see the list of providers here,
and it says the identity provider says
there's no encryption.
Resources are written as-is without any encryption.
And then you have other providers which are these,
and those are listed here.
So you have the secretbox,
you have the aes, gcm, the aescbc,
so all of these are encryption algorithms,
different encryption algorithms,
and you can see the details
about how they encrypt here.
So you can choose whichever one you want and provide a key.
So this key has a secret.
You can provide multiple keys, keys and secrets,
and this secret is what will be used
for the encryption by the encryption algorithm.
Now, one thing to note here is the order.
As you can see, providers is a list.
So this is the first item in the list,
second item in the list, third item,
and fourth item in the list.
So this order matters
because when the encryption happens,
at first it uses this to encrypt
and then it could use any of these to decrypt, right?
So always encryption happens with this.
So if identity provider,
which has no encryption is the first one,
then there's no encryption enabled at all.
So that's how it works.
So if this is the first one,
that means this is what is going to be used for encryption.
And since it's identity,
it's not going to encrypt anything at all.
So if you really want to encrypt the data in etcd,
then one of these should be at the top.
Okay, whatever is the first one
is what's going to be used for encryption.
So let's just do this real quick.
So we're gonna create a very simple version of this file,
which is this,
and this, as you can see, we have specified
that all the secrets are gonna be encrypted
and we're gonna use the aescbc encryption provider.
And as you can see, identity is at the bottom.
So the first one is aescbc,
so this is what is going to be used for encryption.
Now, this requires a secret object.
So we could generate a 32-byte random key using this.
I'm just gonna copy this,
I'm gonna get that key first.
So that's what our key is going to be.
Then I'm gonna copy this
and create encryption object file.
So I'll call it enc.yaml
and I'm gonna paste this,
okay, should have copied the secret value first.
I'm gonna copy this
and I'm gonna go here and replace the secret object here.
Okay.
Okay, so that's that.
So now I have the encryption configuration file.
It's currently in my home directory.
Now all I need to do is go and edit this file.
So that's the next step shown here.
So in the kube-apiserver, I'm gonna add this line
to point to the encryption file that I just created.
Then, of course, we need to,
since the file is created locally,
I have to mount it inside,
so I'm gonna use volumes and volume mount.
If you have not gone through the volumes
and volume mounts yet,
then you might want to take a look at that and come back.
But this is pretty straightforward.
So here you have the directory, the local directory,
and that's on my control panel node here.
And this directory is gonna be mapped
to this path within the pod.
So anything that's available here
is gonna be available here.
That's it, right?
So first, I'm gonna create this local directory
so that I can put my file there.
Okay, I'm gonna move my encryption file from here
to that local directory.
Make sure.
Yup, so I have the file there.
So now I'm gonna edit the kube-apiserver manifest file
and then make these changes.
Okay, so that's the next step.
So I'm gonna go into etc/kubernetes/manifests
/kube-apiserver.
And the first thing that I'm gonna do
is I'm going to add this line.
So this is what tells
where the encryption configuration file is.
So that's the first step.
And then I'm gonna go down.
So I have two things. I have volume mount.
So this is inside my volume,
inside the pod where it is gonna be mounted.
So I'm gonna copy this.
So the directory, the local directory
is gonna be mounted into this path.
So that's the first step.
And then below under mount, I'm going to
specify the location of my local directory.
Okay, so this is how it works on my local host,
the etc/kubernetes/enc directory is going to be mapped to
the etc/kubernetes/enc directory inside the pod.
And then,
so since my enc.yaml file is available locally,
that file is gonna be available inside.
And that's it. Okay, let me save that.
So now that I've saved and made changes to this file,
the kube-apiserver should be restarting.
So let's just give it a few seconds. Let's see.
Okay, so this is now, it's now gone, so I'm gonna wait
for it to come back.
Waiting.
And if you wanna see the status of the kube-apiserver,
since we are using containerd,
so you could use the crictl command.
So you could do the crictl pods to see.
It's come up, okay,
so it looks like it's ready three seconds ago.
Just gonna do, yup, so it's back.
Okay, so now let's do a ps aux
and grep for kube-apiserver.
And let's see if it has,
just to confirm if it has the encryption.
Yeah, so it looks like it has
the encryption provider configured.
Okay, so that's good.
Now what we're going to do
is we're going to create another secrets file.
So we're going to create a secret object.
So we're gonna do a kubectl create secret generic.
Okay, and we are going to,
let's pick this,
and this time we'll just create the second one,
which is key2.
So you have key2 and it's called, the value is topsecret.
Create that.
My secret already exists.
I'm gonna say my-secret-2 maybe. Yup.
Okay, so I now have two.
This is the first one I created.
This is the second one I just created
after encryption was enabled.
So I'm gonna go and run the same command
as I did previously to check the status
of that within etcd
So run this
and the name is my-secret-2.
Okay, and as you can see,
I can no longer see the topsecret.
So the value was topsecret
and no longer see that here.
That means encryption is enabled.
Okay, and if I do the same for the old one,
I still see the supersecret.
Now this is because after encryption is enabled,
only things that you create newly will be encrypted.
Everything that existed previously won't be re-encrypted.
But if you update an existing configuration,
then that will be re-encrypted.
So one other thing that you have here
is to ensure all secrets are encrypted
and what this is doing
is basically you're getting the secrets
and then just replacing them with the same JSON file.
So essentially, you're just updating the objects
with the same data.
So I'm just gonna do that. So that's done.
And if I run the same command again,
I see that I can no longer see the supersecret.
All right, so that's basically encrypting
secret data at rest
using one of these encryption algorithms.
Right, thank you very much and I'll see you in the next one.

--- A Note on Secrets ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Scale Applications ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Multi Container Pods ---

In this lecture we will talk about Multi-container pods in Kubernetes.
The idea of decoupling a large monolithic application into subcomponents known as microservices enable
us to develop and deploy a set of independent, small and reusable code.
This architecture then helps us scale up and down, as well as modify each service as required, as
opposed to modifying the entire application.
However, at times you may need two services to work together, such as a web server with the main app.
You need one web server per each app instance paired together.
You don't want to merge and bloat the code of the two services, as each of them target different features,
and you still like them to be developed and deployed separately.
You only need the two functionality to work together.
You need one web server per main app instance paired together so they can scale up and down together.
And that is why you have multi-container pods that share the same lifecycle, which means they are created
together and destroyed together.
They share the same network space, which means they can refer to each other as localhost.
And they have access to the same storage volumes.
This way you do not have to establish volume sharing or services between the pods to enable communication
between them.
So to create a multi-container pod, add the new container information to the pod definition file.
Now remember the container section under the spec section in a Pod definition file is an array.
And the reason it is an array is to allow multiple containers in a single pod.
So now I've added a another container with the name main app and the image main app.
So in this case we add a new container named a web app as container one.
And then we have another container named as main app as container two.
This is a very simple example.
We will look at more realistic examples later in this course.

--- Multi container Pods Design Pattern ---

Let us now look at the different multi-container pods design patterns.
So there are different patterns for multi-container pods.
What we just saw was the co-located containers.
This is the original form of Multi-container.
It's as simple as two containers running in a pod.
Both the containers are meant to continue to run throughout the entire pod lifecycle.
These are usually used when two services are dependent on each other.
Next is the init containers or the init containers as it's called these days.
This is used when there are initialization steps to be performed when a pod starts before the main application
itself.
For example, this could be an init container that waits for a database to be ready before starting
the main application.
The init container does its job and ends its job, and then the main application starts.
The third type is known as the sidecar container.
A sidecar container is set up like an init container where the sidecar starts first, does its job,
but instead of ending its run, it continues to run throughout the life cycle of the pod.
The main application starts after the sidecar container starts.
This is useful when you have a log shipper of sorts that needs to be run, along with the main application
that needs to start before the main app starts, but continue to run as long as the main app runs and
then end after the main app ends.
So these are the three.
The init container is differentiated well because we know that in in terms of the init container, it
starts and then stops, and then the main app runs.
However, the first and the last.
So the co-located containers and the sidecar containers can be a bit confusing.
So why are there two if they kind of serve the same purpose?
Right.
In both of those cases, you can see that the pods are running throughout the lifecycle.
cycle.
So then what's the difference between the first and the last?
So the main difference is that with the co-located containers, the first one, there is no ability
to define which container starts first and the order of that startup.
So both of those containers are defined as and as elements in an in an array there is no differentiation
between them.
So it all starts together.
And there is no guarantee that one would start before the other.
So if that's not a real requirement for your use case, you may use that option.
However, the Sidecar Containers option provides the ability to specify an order of startup and then
continue to run throughout the pod lifecycle.
So we'll see how to do that in the upcoming slides.
So let's start with the first one.
So here we have the pod definition file for the original uh, the co-located containers.
In this case you can see that the container section is an array and it has two elements in the array
two containers specified in the array.
So when the pod is created, both of them start.
There's no particular order in which they start and they continue to run.
Next we have the regular init containers.
So this is where instead of adding another container as the second item in the containers list, we
define a separate property altogether called init containers.
And under that we follow the same pattern as we do for containers.
So under that we have the name and image and command as we do for the main container.
This init container by default runs at the start and ends its run.
In this case, once the wait for db to start script ends, then the main container starts.
So you could define multiple init containers too, so that they can be run sequentially.
For example, you could have another init container defined as a second item in the list, in this case.
The second item is called an API checker and it waits for another API to be started.
So what happens is first the checker script runs that container, runs and ends, and it ends that run.
And then the second container init container starts, the API checker starts and then it ends its run.
And then the main application starts.
And then it continues to run until the end of the pod lifecycle.
So that's how you can define an order of startup for the init containers.
Now the third pattern is the sidecar containers.
So this is where we still use the init container approach.
So as you can see the code is still there.
Um and this ensures that the init container starts first.
And once they're ready the main app starts.
However the init container continues to run as it has a restart policy set to always.
So this will also ensure the init container is terminated after the main application stops.
That way the log shipper can catch the startup and termination logs of the main container.
So here's a more realistic example using the elastic search and Kibana stack.
So this is a log collection aggregation framework.
And where the elastic search is itself is a component that captures the logs from different endpoints,
different applications.
And Kibana is a visualizer that visualizes the logs, which is what which is a dashboard that users
or administrators look at.
So in this case, what we do is along with the app, we add a sidecar called Filebeat, which comes
along with Elasticsearch.
And that starts before the main app starts, so that it can capture the startup logs of the application,
and then ends after the main app ends, so that it can capture any termination logs in case the in case
the application ended due to any bugs, the termination log needs to be captured so that can be diagnosed
and that is achieved using a sidecar container.
Well, that's all for this lecture.

--- Lab - Multi Container Pods ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- InitContainers ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Init Containers ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Init Containers (Optional) ---

-: Okay, so in this video we're going to go through
the lab on Init containers.
So first let's identify the pod
that has an Init container configured.
So let's look at the pods that are available.
And we see that there are three pods, red, green, and blue.
And we need to identify the one that has
an Init container available.
So from the looks of it from here, it looks like this is
the green is the one that has two containers.
But let's look at all of the pods in more detail.
So let's do a describe, You cut describe pod.
And if you don't specify any pod name,
it's going to list the description of all the pods.
So if you look at red to begin with, it has containers
it has red container.
And if you look at green, it has two containers.
So this is a green container 1 and a green container 2.
But none of these are Init containers, right?
So in Init containers will be
in a separate section called Init containers.
But these, these are not Init containers.
And if you look at blue here we have
an Init container section and we have a container section.
So it is blue that has an Init container configured.
So if you look at the output of the get pause command
remember that it does not show up
the detail of Init container here.
This does not account for the Init container
it only accounts for the actual containers for that pod.
So the answer to this is blue.
Now what is the image used by
the Init container on the blue pod, is still
describe and let's see, the Init container it has a
container called Init service and the image is busy box.
So busy box is the answer.
Now what is the state of the Init container on pod blue?
So if you look at the state, it says terminated,
so terminated is the state.
And why is the Init container terminated?
And what is the reason?
So if you look at the line below,
it says the reason is completed.
So if you look at this,
the way that the Init container is set up,
it has an image called busy box, it has a command
and it's just a command that runs asleep in a shelf,
so it just runs sleep for five seconds.
So whenever this pod is created,
when this pod was created, this Init container kicks in
it just sleeps for five seconds
and it just terminates that container
and then the actual containers are spun up.
So it's a simple setup for this, and that's the reason
since this sleep command completed successfully
the exit code is zero
and that's why the reason is completed.
So the process do not crash, the process cannot start,
now the process completed successfully
and that's why it has exit code zero here.
Okay, now we just created a new app named Purple so, let's
look at this and
how many Init container does it have?
So let's look at this odd
in a bit more detail.
And here you see that you have the Init container section.
You have one container here, and you have another one here,
so there are two, so that's one, one and one of two and
so that's two, two is the answer to the question.
Now, what is the state of the pod?
So if you look at the state of the pod here,
under get pod under the output of get pod,
it's Init02. And over here under status
you can see that it's in a pending state so the,
the state is pending.
Now how long after the creation of the pod
will the application come up and be available to users?
So let's take a look at how this pod is set up.
So this pod has a purple container,
which is the app right here
but it has two Init containers.
So you have the warmup 1 and warmup 2 Init containers.
And the first one has a command
set to sleep for 600 seconds.
And the second Init container has a command
set to sleep for 1200 seconds so
this is gonna run first and then this is gonna run after.
So you can have multiple Init containers
change like this if required.
So this is going to be 10 minutes
and this is 20 minutes.
So in total, before this actually comes up
the Init containers are going to just sleep for 30 minutes.
So only after 30 minutes will this come up.
So yeah, it's a silly use case but
it's just a very simple example to help you understand
how the Init containers work.
So that's 30 minutes.
Now this could be, you know, anything in real life,
and this could be things that, you know, prepare a database
or prepare some startup scripts, stuff like that.
And that is, that has to be run before the actual
application comes up.
Okay so, update the next question is to
update the pod red to use an Init container.
So there is a pod red,
it has one container and it's in the running state
and we need to update it to use an image container
that uses a busy box image and sleeps for 20 seconds.
So let's do an edit pod red
and we have the in container section here,
so we're gonna add a section called Init containers
and then here we have the image,
so the image is busy box,
and then we have
the names so this could be any name,
let just say busy box
and as a command,
so the command is to sleep
for 20 seconds.
Okay so that's it, let's save that.
And of course it didn't allow us to save
so we're just gonna quit,
we're gonna do a replace force, and this
and let's just wait for the pod
to terminate and recreate.
Okay, so that's done. Let's check,
let's go next.
Now a new application orange is deployed,
there is something wrong with it,
identify and fix the issue
and once fixed, wait for the application to run
before checking the solution.
So let's check the application called Pod.
And it has one container and it's in a
Init CrashLoopBackOff.
So let's take a closer look at why it's failing.
So if you look at this pod,
we see that it has Init containers,
there's one Init container called Init my service,
and there's a container called Orange container
and it's just a simple app.
And here, if you look at this,
it says back off, restarting failed container.
So one of the containers seems to be,
you know failing and restarting.
And if you look at it here, it says Init crashed
so back off indicates that it is Init container that's
failing and that's what is being restarted.
So one of the thing that we could look at
when that happens is the logs.
So you could look at the logs of
a pod using the kubectl locks command
and we're gonna specify orange as the pod,
but we're not gonna have
but just running logs is just
always going to fetch logs from the orange container.
But the orange container in the orange pod
is just waiting to be restarted, waiting to start
because it's actually in an initializing state.
So let's find out what's happening with the
let's look at the logs of the container,
which is the Init container.
So for that you specify that C
and then give the container name, which is
Init my service, and here you see that
it says sleep not found.
So the, it seems to be a typo in the sleep command.
So if you look at how that Init container is configured
you see that there's a command section and you have
the sleep command, but it has a typo in it
and that's basically the reason it's filling.
And you see that the state is terminated,
but this time the reason is error as opposed to completed
as it is before.
And then the exit code is is 127, right?
So, and it's just, it just keeps restarting until you know,
until it's fixed. So let's go ahead and fix that.
Let's do a kubectl edit or Orange
and go to Init containers,
we're going to fix this.
Just fix the typo and we'll save that
and surprise, surprise
and save that so we're going to
just do a kubectl replace, force -f
with this file. Okay, so that's replaced.
Let's check, the status now.
And we see that the Init container has a command
which is now correct and it's already terminated
and it's completed. Exit code is now zero.
Check the status of the pod,
it's now in a running state.
Let's check, check it now. Okay, so that's done.
Well, that's the end of this lab
and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Self Healing Applications ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates) Introduction to Autoscaling? ---

In the next few videos, we will talk about auto scaling from an exam point of view.
We're going to talk about horizontal pod auto scaling or HPA vertical pod auto scaling or VPA.
And because this is only one of the topics for the exam, we're going to keep it as light as possible.
However, note that this is a vast topic and we have an entire course just for it on code cloud called
as Kubernetes Auto Scaling.
So I highly recommend you check that out.
Okay, now before we begin to look at auto scaling, let's look at what scaling means in the first place.
So let's forget about Kubernetes and containers for a second and go back to the plain old servers and
apps hosted on physical servers.
And so if you go back in time, millions and millions of years ago, when we used to host applications
on physical servers with a predefined CPU and memory capacity.
And what happens when the load increases and we run out of existing resources on the server.
Now we need to scale up the server.
So we took down the application and added more CPU or memory resources to it and then powered it back
up.
And that's referred to as vertical scaling.
So as you just saw we basically increase the size of the existing server vertically.
We added more resources to our existing server by adding more CPU and memory components to it vertically.
And so that's vertical scaling if the application supported running in multiple instances.
Another thing we could have done is that we could have avoided having to shut down the server.
Instead, we could have added more servers to it and shared load between them.
So running more instances of the application by adding more servers is known as horizontal scaling.
So that's the basics of scaling.
Vertical scaling refers to adding more resources to existing application, and horizontal scaling refers
to adding more instances or more servers to your system.
Now let's look at how that relates to Kubernetes and the container world.
When we first introduced Kubernetes, we mentioned that one of the major purposes of a container orchestrator
like Kubernetes is to host applications in the form of containers and scale up and down based on demand.
So there are two types of scaling in Kubernetes.
What we just spoke about, uh, is scaling workloads.
So you can scale the workloads by adding or removing containers or pods onto the cluster.
Another approach to scaling is scaling the underlying cluster itself.
So that's adding or removing more servers or infrastructure to your cluster.
So there's scaling workloads and scaling the cluster infra.
So let's look at what these mean.
So there are two ways of scaling these individually.
So there's horizontal and vertical scaling.
So when it comes to the cluster horizontal scaling refers to adding more nodes to the cluster.
Vertical scaling would mean increasing the resources on existing nodes in the cluster.
When it comes to scaling workloads, horizontal scaling would mean creating more pods and vertical scaling
would mean increasing the resources allocated to existing pods.
Now let's talk about the how.
So there are two ways of scaling.
There's the manual way and the automated way.
The manual approach of horizontally scaling cluster infra would be to manually provision new nodes and
then use the kube adm join command to add new nodes to the cluster.
When it comes to vertical scaling, I don't think that's a common approach used for Kubernetes, because
it would result in having to take down the server and applications running on them, and then add more
resources to the servers and bring it back up, which is not something that we would want to do.
So since most of the infra these days are virtual machines, you could easily provision a server with
higher resources, add it to the cluster and remove the older server.
So I don't think vertical scaling is that common of an approach.
Now when it comes to horizontal scaling Rescaling workloads.
The manual approach would be to run the kubectl scale command on the workload, to scale up or down
the number of pods, and to vertically scale resources associated to a pod.
You would usually run the kubectl edit command to go in to that deployment or stateful set or replica
set, and change the resource limits and requests associated with the pods.
Now we will dive into more details about each of these in the upcoming lectures, but I'm just giving
you a high level overview right now.
Now, now that we have discussed all of this, finally let's look at the automated approach.
So for horizontally scaling the infra we have what is known as the Kubernetes cluster autoscaler.
For horizontally scaling the workloads we have what is known as the horizontal pod autoscaler or HPA.
And for vertically scaling workloads we have the vertical Pod autoscaler.
So that, my friends, are the topic of discussion for the rest of this section.
I'll see you in the next video.

--- (2025 Updates) Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA)? ---

Let us now look at horizontal pod autoscaler in Kubernetes.
Let's start by looking at how I would manually scale a workload horizontally.
So I'm a Kubernetes administrator, and I'm sitting on my machine looking at a cluster.
And I'm tasked to make sure that there is always sufficient workload to support demand for this application.
From a deployment configuration perspective, I see this pod requests 250 milli CPU and has a limit
of 500 millicores of CPU.
This means that 500 Millicores is the max the CPU it gets, after which it doesn't get any more.
Um, and the capacity that a single pod can handle is 500 millicores of CPU.
So I would run the kubectl top pod command and monitor the resource consumption of the pod.
If I had to do it manually.
Now remember that you must have the metrics server running on the cluster to be able to monitor the
resource usage like this.
Now, when it reaches the threshold of 450 millicores or whatever it is that I have defined as the threshold
or close to that.
I would run the kubectl scale command to scale the deployment to add additional pods.
So that's the manual way to scale a workload.
The problems with this approach is that I have to sit in front of my computer and continuously monitor
resource usage.
I need to manually run commands to scale up and down.
And if there's a sudden traffic spike and I want a break or something, I may not be able to react fast
enough to support the spike in the application or in the traffic.
So to solve this, we use the Horizontal Pod autoscaler.
So the horizontal Pod autoscaler continuously monitors the metrics as we did manually using the top
command.
It then automatically increases or decreases the number of pods in a deployment Statefulset or replica
set based on the CPU, memory, or custom metrics.
And if the CPU, memory, or memory usage goes too high, HPA creates more paths to handle that, and
if it drops, it removes the extra pods to save resources and thus balances the thresholds.
And note that it can also track multiple different types of metrics, which we will refer to in in a
few minutes.
So let's see this in action.
For the given nginx deployment, we can configure a horizontal pod autoscaler by running the kubectl
autoscale command, targeting the deployment myapp, and specifying a CPU threshold of 50% with a minimum
of one and maximum of ten pods.
So when this command is run, Kubernetes creates a horizontal pod autoscaler for this deployment that
first reads the limits configured on the pod, and then learns that it's set to 500 milli core.
It then continuously pulls the metric server to monitor the usage, and when the usage goes beyond 50%,
it modifies the number of replicas to scale up or down, depending on the usage.
So to view the status of the created HPA, run the kubectl get HPA command and it lists the current
HPA.
The targets column shows the current CPU usage versus the threshold we have set, and the minimum and
maximum and the current count of replicas.
So it would never go beyond the maximum that we have specified when scaling up, and it would not go
beyond the minimum that we specified when scaling down.
And when you no longer need the HPA, you can delete it using the kubectl delete HPA command.
Now that was the imperative approach to creating an HPA.
There's also a declarative approach.
So create an HPA definition file with the API version set to auto scaling v2 kind is set to horizontal
pod autoscaler.
The name is set to Myapp HPA and then we have the scale target ref.
This is the target resource we want the HPA to monitor.
That's the deployment named Myapp.
We also have the min and max replicas defined.
And then we have configured the metrics and resources to monitor in this case the resource being CPU
and target utilization, uh being 50%.
Now note that HPA comes built in with Kubernetes since version 1.23, so there is no separate installation
procedures required.
Note that it relies on metric server, so that is a prerequisite.
So talking about metric server we spoke about the metric server that HPA depends on to get current resource
utilization numbers.
Now what we have been referring to is the internal metric server.
But there are also other sources that we can refer to, such as a custom metrics adapter that can retrieve
information from other internal sources, like a workload deployed in a cluster.
However, these are still internal sources.
We can also refer to external sources, such as tools or other instances that are outside of the Kubernetes
cluster, such as a Datadog.
Or Dynatrace instance using an external adapter.
However, these are beyond the scope of this course, so more details and labs about these are available
in our Kubernetes Auto Scaling course.
To keep the scope just enough for the exam, this is all that we will discuss about HPA for now.
Well, thank you so much for watching.
Head over to the labs and I'll see you in the next one.

--- (2025 Updates) Lab - Manual Scaling? ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates) Lab - HPA? ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates) In-Place Resize of Pods? ---

Let us now look at in-place resizing of pods.
So before we talk about Vertical Pod autoscaler, I thought it would be a good idea to talk about in-place
resize of pod resources.
So what does that mean?
Now as of this recording, which is Kubernetes version 1.32 has has released, if you change resource
requirements of a pod in a deployment, the default behavior is to delete the existing pod and then
spin up a new pod with the new changes.
So any resource, any changes to the resource definitions on pod.
Uh ah.
Does not happen in place.
Which means the pod needs to be killed.
And the new pod with the new resource definitions need to be created.
So that's the default behavior.
Now we know that this can be disruptive, especially for stateful workloads.
So uh, there is an improvement that is being worked upon called as in-place update of Pod resources.
This is a feature that is currently in alpha as of Kubernetes release 1.27, and is not enabled by default,
and when it goes to the beta or stable stage in the future, it will become enabled by default.
But as of this recording it is not.
So it is still available with the features that are part of the Kubernetes cluster.
You just have to enable it.
So to enable this feature, you must set the feature flag called in-place pod vertical scaling to true.
And once this is enabled, the Pod definition supports a set of resize policy parameters, which we
will look at next.
So the new resize policy options allow you to specify a restart policy for each resource.
In this example, we have defined that a change in CPU resource will not require the pod to be restarted,
and a change in memory will require a restart of the pod.
And the next we make a change to a resource such as updating the CPU to one, and you can see that the
pod does not need to be killed.
Instead, it can simply be updated with the new resources and so it can just increase in size.
So that explains how we can resize a CPU or memory resource assigned to a container without really restarting
it.
And this feature is currently in alpha with version 1.33.
Release of Kubernetes.
This is meant to be released as a beta feature, and in the future will be available as a stable feature.
So now remember that we're still talking about manually scaling a pod, so we're not really talking
about Vertical Pod Autoscaler yet.
So in the next video we'll talk about Vertical Pod Autoscaler, but let's also look at some of the limitations.
So some of the limitations of in place resizing of pods to keep in mind is that this only works for
CPU and memory resources.
Pod, QoS class, etc. cannot be changed.
Init containers and ephemeral containers cannot be resized with this approach.
Resource requests and limits cannot be moved once they are set.
A containers memory limit may not be reduced below its usage.
If a request puts a container in the state, the resize status will remain in progress until the desired
memory limit becomes feasible.
And finally, windows pods cannot be resized as of now.
Well, that's it for this one.

--- (2025 Updates) Vertical Pod Autoscaling (VPA)? ---

1
Let's now look at Vertical Pod Autoscaler
2
in Kubernetes.
3
So let's start by looking at
4
how I would manually scale a workload vertically.
5
Say I am a Kubernetes administrator
6
and I'm sitting on my machine looking at a cluster,
7
I'm tasked to make sure
8
that there is always sufficient workload
9
to support demand for this application.
10
And from the deployment configuration,
11
I see that this pod requests a 250 milli cores of CPU
12
and has a limit of 500 milli cores of CPU.
13
And this means that 500 milli cores
14
is the max capacity it gets.
15
So as I did before,
16
I would run the kubectl top pod command
17
and monitor the resource consumption of the pod.
18
And so remember that you must have the metric server running
19
on the cluster to be able to monitor as the same as before.
20
And when it reaches a specific threshold,
21
what I'm going to do to scale the pod vertically
22
is run the kubectl edit deployment command.
23
So I would run the edit deployment command
24
and I would change the resource requests and limits
25
assigned to the deployment under the pod template,
26
under the container section, and then save it.
27
And what would happen is it would then kill that pod
28
and create a new pod.
29
So that's basically how I would do it manually.
30
Now of course we don't wanna do it manually.
31
We have the vertical pod autoscaler for that.
32
So similar to the horizontal pod autoscaler,
33
the vertical pod autoscaler
34
continuously monitors the metrics
35
and then it automatically increases
36
or decreases the resources assigned to the pods
37
in a deployment
38
and thus balances the workload.
39
So let's look at it in a bit more detail.
40
So unlike the horizontal pod autoscaler,
41
the vertical pod autoscaler do not come built-in,
42
as such, we must deploy it.
43
So we first apply the vertical pod autoscaler
44
definition file available in the GitHub repo.
45
And then when we run the kubectl get pods command
46
in the cube system namespace
47
and search for VPA,
48
we'll be able to see
49
that there are multiple components deployed.
50
So there is the admission controller recommender
51
and the updater service, which should be running.
52
So let's look at what those are.
53
So the VPA deployment consists of multiple components.
54
So there's the VPA admission controller,
55
the updater, and the recommender.
56
So the recommender is responsible
57
for continuously monitoring resource usage
58
from the Kubernetes metrics API,
59
and collects historical and live usage data for pods,
60
and then provides recommendations
61
on optimal CPU and memory values.
62
And the recommender itself does not modify the pod directly,
63
or it only suggests changes.
64
The updater detects pods that are running
65
with suboptimal resources
66
and evicts them when an update is needed.
67
So it gets the information from the recommender
68
and monitors the pod.
69
And if a pod needs to be updated, it evicts them.
70
That means it just terminates the pod.
71
And the admission controller intervenes
72
the pod creation process
73
and uses the recommendations from the recommender again,
74
to then mutate the pod spec
75
to apply the recommended CPU and memory values at startup.
76
And this ensures that the newly created pods
77
start with the correct resource requests.
78
So basically the VPA recommender collects information,
79
the updater monitors
80
or gets the information from the recommender,
81
compares that to the actual pod.
82
And if the pod is beyond the threshold, it kills the pod
83
and whether it kills or not,
84
that depends on the policy
85
that we'll talk about in a bit.
86
But ideally it would kill the pod
87
and then the admission controller intervenes
88
because when a pod is killed,
89
it's automatically,
90
the deployment will automatically recreate the pod.
91
And when it does that, the admission controller intervenes
92
and updates the resources so that the pod is now,
93
now comes up with the new size.
94
So let's look at how to create the VPA service
95
using a definition file.
96
So not that there's no imperative match to create a VPA
97
because it's not a built-in component like the HPA.
98
So here we have the API version,
99
which is autoscaling.k8s.io/v1.
100
The kind is vertical pod autoscaler.
101
The name is my app VPA.
102
The target to monitor is the my app deployment.
103
The container policies define what is monitored,
104
in this case, the CPU minimum allowed
105
and max allowed are configured.
106
And finally we have the update policy mode.
107
So there are four modes that VPA operates in.
108
The off mode, which only recommends changes
109
but does not do anything.
110
So in this case,
111
it's only the recommender working,
112
the updater and the admission controllers are not working.
113
In case of the off-mode.
114
The initial mode that only changes pods on creation,
115
not later.
116
So in the initial mode, the recommender recommends a change.
117
And when the deployment is scaled for some other reason
118
and the new pods come up,
119
the admission controller intervenes
120
and changes the pods resource definitions.
121
The updater in this case does not work to kill
122
or take down the pod.
123
In case of the recreate mode,
124
that's where the updater component jumps in
125
and evicts an existing pod,
126
when its resource consumption goes beyond range specified.
127
And finally, we have the auto mode
128
that updates existing pods to the recommended numbers.
129
Again, for now, this behavior is similar to recreate.
130
So as of now, the auto mode works exactly
131
as a recreate mode.
132
But when the support for the in-place a bit of Pod resources
133
is available,
134
the one that we spoke about in the previous video,
135
then that mode would be preferred over recreate.
136
So that auto-mode is really built for the future.
137
When the in-place update of pod resources are available
138
in stable version of Kubernetes,
139
that would be the default behavior.
140
But as of now, the auto-mode works exactly like recreate,
141
where if a pod goes beyond a range, it is killed.
142
Now VPA will monitor resource usage and suggest adjustments.
143
So we can check the recommendations
144
with the command kubectl describe VPA
145
followed by the name of the VPA.
146
And here you can see the recommendation.
147
So VPAs are just increasing CPU to 1.5.
148
So we spoke about horizontal and vertical pod autoscalers,
149
but you must be wondering when to use which.
150
So let's kind of compare the two.
151
First, let's look at the scaling methods.
152
So VPA as we know works by increasing CPU and memory
153
for existing pods
154
or by just recreating those pods with the new resources.
155
Whereas HPA adds or removes pods based on demand.
156
This means that the VPA optimizes
157
individual pod performance,
158
while HPA focuses on distributing the load
159
across multiple instances.
160
Next, in terms of pod behavior, VPA restarts pods
161
to apply the new resource values.
162
This means downtime is involved when scaling up vertically.
163
In contrast, HPA keeps existing pods running
164
and simply spins up new ones
165
ensuring continuous availability.
166
Now what about handling traffic spikes?
167
So HPA is clearly the winner here.
168
It instantly adds more pods when demand increases,
169
making it the preferred choice for applications
170
that require rapid scaling.
171
And VPA on the other hand
172
cannot handle sudden spikes efficiently
173
because it requires restarting pods typically,
174
which introduces delays.
175
Now, from a cost optimization perspective,
176
both have advantages.
177
So VPA prevents over provisioning
178
by adjusting CPU and memory allocation
179
to match actual usage.
180
And HPA on the other hand,
181
avoids unnecessary idle pods
182
ensuring that resources are used efficiently
183
without keeping excess instances running.
184
So when should you use which?
185
So VPA is best suited for stateful workloads
186
and CPU or memory heavy applications such as databases,
187
JVM-based applications, AI and other workloads
188
that require fine-tuned resources.
189
So let's say some applications require
190
like heavy CPU in the initial startup,
191
but then later does not require that much CPU.
192
What you could do is that's where VPA comes in.
193
So you could start the instance with a lot of CPU
194
and once that initialization process is over,
195
I mean when it needs to reduce the CPU memory usage
196
allocated to it, then that's where VPA comes into picture.
197
The HPA is ideal for web applications,
198
microservices and stateless services
199
such as web servers, message queues,
200
and API-based applications where quick scaling is needed
201
to handle fluctuating traffic.
202
So in summary, VPA is about optimizing resource allocation
203
for individual pods,
204
while HPA is about scaling the number of pods dynamically
205
based on demand.
206
So choosing the right autoscaler
207
depends on the workload type
208
and how you need to scale your application.
209
All right, that's all for this lesson.
210
Head over to the labs,
211
and get your hands-on practicing with VPA.

--- (2025 Updates) Lab - Install VPA? ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates) Lab - Modifying CPU resources in VPA? ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Cluster Maintenance - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello, this is (indistinct)
and we are going through
the certified Kubernetes Administrator's course.
In this lecture,
we discuss about cluster maintenance related topics.
We start by looking at operating system upgrades.
We see the implications of losing a node from the cluster
or when you take a note out of the cluster on purpose
like for applying patches or upgrades on the OS itself.
We then look at the cluster upgrade process.
But before we do that, we need to know a little bit
about Kubernetes releases and versions
and the best practices around upgrading, when to upgrade,
what version to upgrade to, et cetera.
So we look at that first.
Once you learn the upgrade procedure,
you are asked to upgrade a cluster by yourself.
You will perform an end-to-end upgrade of a cluster yourself
with live applications running on them.
And finally, we look at some
of the backup and restore methodologies.
You will practice a disaster recovery scenario
where you take a backup of the Kubernetes cluster
then go through a simulated disaster
and then you're asked to recover from that disaster
and bring the cluster back to the previous state.
Well, fun stuff coming up.
So let's get started.

--- OS Upgrades ---

1
In this lecture,
2
we will discuss about scenarios
3
where you might have to take down nodes as part
4
of your cluster, say for maintenance purposes,
5
like upgrading a base software
6
or applying patches like security patches, et cetera,
7
on your cluster.
8
In this lecture, we will see the options available
9
to handle such cases.
10
So you have a cluster with a few nodes
11
and pods serving applications.
12
What happens when one of these nodes go down?
13
Of course, the pods on them are not accessible.
14
Now, depending upon how you deploy those pods,
15
your users may be impacted.
16
For example, since you have multiple replicas
17
of the blue pod, the users accessing the blue application
18
are not impacted as they're being served
19
through the other blue pod that's online.
20
However, users accessing the green pod are impacted as
21
that was the only pod running the green application.
22
Now, what does Kubernetes do in this case?
23
If the node came back online immediately,
24
then the cube control process starts
25
and the pods come back online.
26
However, if the node was down for more than five minutes,
27
then the pods are terminated from that node.
28
Well, Kubernetes considers them as dead.
29
If the pods were part of a replica set,
30
then they're recreated on other nodes.
31
The time it waits for a pod to come back online is known
32
as the pod eviction timeout
33
and is set on the controller manager
34
with a default value of five minutes.
35
In modern Kubernetes, pod eviction is handled
36
through node taints and pod tolerations.
37
When a node becomes not ready
38
or unreachable, Kubernetes applies no execute taints
39
and pods are evicted after a grace period
40
unless they tolerate those taints.
41
So whenever a node goes offline, the master node waits
42
for up to five minutes before considering the node dead.
43
When the node comes back online
44
after the pod eviction timeout,
45
it comes up blank without any pod scheduled on it.
46
Since the blue pod was part of a replica set,
47
it had a new pod created on another node.
48
However, since the green pod was not part
49
of a replica set, it's just gone.
50
Thus, if you have maintenance tasks
51
to be performed on a node, if you know
52
that the workloads running on the node have other replicas,
53
and if it's okay that they go down for a short period
54
of time, and if you're sure the node will come back online
55
within five minutes, you can make a quick upgrade
56
and reboot.
57
However, you do not for sure know if a node is going
58
to be back online in five minutes.
59
Well, you cannot for sure say it is going to be back at all.
60
So there is a safer way to do it.
61
You can purposefully drain the node of all the workloads so
62
that the workloads are moved to other nodes in the cluster.
63
Well, technically, they're not moved.
64
When you drain a node, the pods are gracefully terminated
65
from the node that they're on and recreated on another.
66
The node is also cordoned or marked as unschedulable,
67
meaning no pods can be scheduled on this node
68
until you specifically remove the restriction.
69
Now that the pods are safe on the other nodes,
70
you can reboot the first node.
71
When it comes back online, it is still unschedulable.
72
You then need to uncoordinated so
73
that the pods can be scheduled on it again.
74
Now remember, the pods that were moved
75
to the other nodes don't automatically fall back.
76
If any of those pods were deleted
77
or if new pods were created in the cluster,
78
then they would be created on this node.
79
Apart from drain and uncordon,
80
there is also another command called cordon.
81
Cordon simply marks a node unschedulable.
82
Unlike drain, it does not terminate
83
or move the pods on an existing node.
84
It simply makes sure
85
that new pods are not scheduled on that node.
86
Well, the set for this lecture.
87
Head over to the practice test
88
and practice training, coordinating
89
and then coordinating a note.
90
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Lab - OS Upgrades ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Kubernetes Releases ---

In this lecture we will see how Kubernetes manages software releases.
So what do we know about API versions in Kubernetes so far?
We know that when we install a Kubernetes cluster, we install a specific version of Kubernetes.
We can see that when we run the kubectl get nodes command.
In this case it's version 1.33.0.
Now let's take a closer look at that version number.
The Kubernetes release versions consists of three parts.
The first is the major version, followed by the minor version and then the patch version.
Now, while minor versions are released every few months with new features and functionalities, patches
are released more often with critical bug fixes.
Now, just like many other popular applications out there, Kubernetes follows a standard software release
versioning procedure.
Every few months it comes out with new features and functionalities through a minor release.
The first major version, version 1.0, was released in July of 2015, and later releases followed through
2016 to 2018, to version 1.20 in 2020 and version 1.33 in April 2025.
Now, apart from these, you will also see Alpha and beta releases.
All the bug fixes and improvements first go into Alpha release.
Tagged Alpha.
In this release, the features are disabled by default and may be buggy.
And then from there they make their way to beta release where the code is well tested.
The new features are enabled by default in this release, and finally they make their way to the main
stable release.
You can find all the releases in the releases page of the Kubernetes um repository or the documentation
page.
You download the Kubernetes dot tar dot js file and extract it to find executables for all the different
components.
The downloaded package, when extracted, has all the control plane components in it, all of them of
the same version.
Now remember that there are other components within the control plane that do not have the same version
numbers.
The etcd cluster and the core DNS servers have their own versions as their separate projects.
The release notes of each release provides information about the supported versions of dependent applications,
like etcd and core DNS.
Check out the links for some references.
So that was a quick overview of the release versions.
In the upcoming lecture, we will discuss how to upgrade from one version to another.

--- Cluster Upgrade Introduction ---

In this lecture we discuss about cluster upgrade process in Kubernetes.
In the previous lecture, we saw how Kubernetes manages its software releases and how different components
have their versions.
We will keep dependency on external components like etcd and DNS aside for now, and focus on the core
control plane components.
Is it mandatory for all of these to have the same version?
No.
The components can be at different release versions, since the kube API server is the primary component
in the control plane, and that is the component that all other components talk to.
None of the other components should ever be at a version higher than the kube API server.
The controller, manager and scheduler can be at one version lower.
So if kube API server was at EKS, controller managers and kube schedulers can be at x minus one and
the kubelet and kube proxy components can be at two versions lower x minus two.
So if kube API server was at 1.1, the controller manager and scheduler could be at 1.1 or 1.9, and
the kubelet and kube proxy could be at 1.8.
None of them could be at a version higher than the cube API server, like 1.11.
Now this is not the case with kube control.
The kube control utility could be at 1.11 a version higher than the API server 1.11 the same version
as the API server, or at 1.9 a version lower than the API server.
Now this permissible skew in versions allows us to carry out live upgrades.
We can upgrade component by component if required.
So when should you upgrade?
Say you were at 1.1 and Kubernetes releases versions 1.11 and 1.12 at any time.
Kubernetes supports only up to the recent three minor versions.
So with 1.12 being the latest release, Kubernetes supports versions 1.12, 1.11, and 1.1.
So when 1.13 is released, only versions 1.13, 1.1 and 1.11 are supported.
Before the release of 1.13 would be a good time to upgrade your cluster to the next release.
So how do we upgrade?
Do we upgrade directly from 1.1 to 1.13?
No.
The recommended approach is to upgrade one minor version at a time.
Version 1.1 to 1.11, then 1.11 to 1.12, and then 1.12 to 1.13.
The upgrade process depends on how your cluster is set up.
For example, if your cluster is a managed Kubernetes cluster deployed on cloud service providers like
Google, for instance, Google Kubernetes Engine lets you upgrade your cluster easily with just a few
clicks.
If you deployed your cluster using tools like Kube ADM, then the tool can help you plan and upgrade
the cluster.
If you deployed your cluster from scratch, then you manually upgrade the different components of the
cluster yourself.
In this lecture we will look at the options by kube adm.
So you have a cluster with master and worker nodes running in production, hosting pods serving users.
The nodes and components are at version 1.1.
When upgrading a cluster involves two major steps.
First, you upgrade your master nodes and then upgrade the worker nodes while the master is being upgraded.
The control plane components such as the API, server, scheduler, and controller managers go down
briefly, the master going down does not mean your worker nodes and applications on the cluster are
impacted.
All workloads hosted on the worker nodes continue to serve users as normal.
Since the master is down, all management functions are down.
You cannot access the cluster using kube control or other Kubernetes API.
You cannot deploy new applications or delete or modify existing ones.
The controller managers don't function either.
If a pod was to fail, a new pod won't be automatically created.
But as long as the nodes and pods are up, your applications should be up and users will not be impacted.
Once the upgrade is complete and the cluster is back up, it should function normally.
We now have the master and the master components at version 1.11, and the worker nodes at version 1.1.
As we saw earlier, this is a supported configuration.
It is now time to upgrade the worker nodes.
There are different strategies available to upgrade the worker nodes.
One is to upgrade all of them at once, but then your pods are down and users are no longer able to
access the applications.
Once the upgrade is complete, the nodes are back up, new pods are scheduled, and users can resume
access.
That's one strategy that requires downtime.
The second strategy is to upgrade one node at a time.
So going back to the state where we have our master upgraded and nodes waiting to be upgraded, we first
upgrade the first node where the workloads move to the second and third node, and users are served
from there.
Once the first node is upgraded and back up, we then update the second node where the workloads move
to the first and third nodes, and finally the third node where the workloads are shared between the
first two.
Until we have all nodes upgraded to a newer version, we then follow the same procedure to upgrade the
nodes from 1.11 to 1.12 and then 1.13.
A third strategy would be to add new nodes to the cluster nodes with newer software version.
This is especially convenient if you're on a cloud environment, where you can easily provision new
nodes and decommission old ones.
Nodes with the newer software version can be added to the cluster.
Move the workload over to the new.
And remove the old node until you finally have all new nodes with the new software version.
Let us now see how it is done.
Say we were to upgrade this cluster from 1.1 to 1.13.
Kubeadm has an upgrade command that helps in upgrading clusters with Kubeadm.
Run the Kubeadm upgrade plan command and it will give you a lot of good information.
The current cluster version.
The Kubeadm tool version, the latest stable version of Kubernetes.
Then it lists all the control plane components and their versions and what version these can be upgraded
to.
It also tells you that after we upgrade the control plane components, you must manually upgrade the
Kubelet versions on each node.
Remember, kube adm does not install or upgrade Cubelets.
Finally, it gives you the command to upgrade the cluster.
Also note that you must upgrade the cube ADM tool itself before you can upgrade the cluster.
The cube ADM tool also follows the same software version as Kubernetes.
So we are at 1.11 and we want to go to 1.13.
But remember we can only go one minor version at a time.
So we first go to 1.1 to first upgrade the cube ADM tool itself to version 1.12, then upgrade the cluster
using the command from the upgrade plan output cube upgrade apply.
It pulls the necessary images and upgrades the cluster components.
Once complete, your control plane components are now at 1.12.
If you run the kube control get nodes command, you will still see the master node at 1.17.
This is because in the output of this command, it is showing the versions of Kubelets on each of these
nodes registered with the API server, and not the version of the API server itself.
So the next step is to upgrade the Kubelets.
Remember, depending on your setup, you may or may not have Kubelets running on your master node.
In this case, the cluster deployed with Kube ADM has Kubelets on the master node, which are used to
run the control plane components as pods on the master nodes.
When we set up a Kubernetes cluster from scratch later during this course, we do not install Kubelet
on the master nodes.
You will not see the master node in the output of this command in that case.
So the next step is to upgrade Kubelet on the master node.
If you have Kubelets on them, run the apt.
Get Kubelet command for this.
Once the package is upgraded, restart the Kubelet service running the kube control get nodes command
now shows that the master has been upgraded to 1.12.
The worker nodes are still at 1.11.
So next the worker nodes let us start one at a time.
We need to first move the workloads from the first worker node to the other nodes.
The kube control drain command lets you safely terminate all the pods from a node and reschedules them
on the other nodes.
It also cordons the node and marks it unschedulable.
That way no new pods are scheduled on it.
Then upgrade the kubectl and kubelet packages on the worker nodes as we did on the master node.
Then, using the kube adm tool upgrade command, update the node configuration for the new Cubelet version.
Then restart the Cubelet service.
The node should now be up with the new software version.
However, when we drain the node, we actually marked it Unschedulable.
So we need to unmark it by running the command kube control on node one.
The node is now Schedulable, but remember that it is not necessary that the pods come right back to
this node.
It is only marked as Schedulable.
Only when the pods are deleted from the other nodes, or when new pods are scheduled.
Do they really come back to this first node?
Well, it will soon come when we take down the second node to perform the same steps to upgrade it.
And finally the third node.
We now have all nodes upgraded.
Well that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice test where you will practice upgrading a live cluster with applications running
on it without taking the applications down.
Good luck.

--- Demo - Cluster upgrade ---

Instructor: In this video, I'm gonna walk you through
a demo of upgrading a Kubernetes cluster
from version 1.28 to version 1.29.
And what we're gonna do
is we're gonna follow the documentation
when it comes to upgrading using kubeadm.
And so if you go to the Kubernetes documentation
and you go under Tasks, under Administer a Cluster,
and then down here under Administration with kubeadm,
select Upgrading a kubeadm cluster.
And this is gonna have all of the instructions necessary
to perform an upgrade on a Kubernetes cluster
using kubeadm, and it'll have separate instructions
for each different upgrade.
So you've got one from version 1.28 to version 1.29,
which is what I'm on now,
which is the latest kind of upgrade,
because version 1.29 is the latest at the moment.
But you can see you could also have 1.27 to 1.28,
1.26 to 1.27, 1.25 to 1.26,
and 1.24 to 1.25.
So just select whichever upgrade path you're performing
and just follow those instructions
and you'll see that it's gonna be pretty much identical
regardless of what versions you're upgrading from
and upgrading to.
All right, so let's go ahead and get started.
So I'm gonna scroll down
and you can see that there's an important note
which is "Changing the package repository."
And so if you guys aren't up to date as to what happened,
the old package repositories
for all of the different Kubernetes tools and components
was stored at app.kubernetes.io
and yum.kubernetes.io.
And so those have been deprecated.
So moving forward, we want to use
the pkgs.k8s.io repositories to actually, you know,
download the latest versions of like kubectl,
kubeadm, and all of the different tools.
So we're gonna have to, you know, at the early stages
of performing the upgrade, we're gonna have to make sure
that we're utilizing the newer repositories
and not the older ones.
And I'll show you guys
how we can actually go ahead and do that.
And so what we're gonna do
is we're gonna click on this link right here,
and this is gonna give us the instructions
on how to actually use and set up
the new package repositories.
And it's actually pretty straightforward.
So the first thing that we have to do
is we have to make sure we know
what our, you know, distribution is
'cause the commands are gonna be a little bit different.
So if I go to my cluster right here,
and just to show you guys, I have a two node cluster.
So if I do kubectl get node,
we can see that I've got two nodes here,
one control plane, one worker node.
And keep in mind the steps for upgrading a cluster,
you know, whether it's, you know, two nodes, three nodes,
five nodes, it's all going to be identical.
But if I want to see what, what distribution
my servers are using,
I can do a cat /etc/*release*,
and this is gonna tell us what distribution we're using.
And we can see here we're using Ubuntu 20.04.6.
So this is using Debian,
and so we're gonna follow the instructions
for that on this specific page.
All right, so I'm gonna scroll down here
and it's gonna show the instructions
for Debian, Ubuntu operating systems.
And so here we replace the app repository definition
so that it points to the new one.
And so all we have to do is just copy this command.
And what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna just copy this
and paste this into Notepad
or some text editor of my choice, and we're gonna select,
or we're gonna have to update one thing,
which is the specific minor version that we want.
So this example uses the new package repository,
which is what we want,
but there's a different package repository
for each minor version.
So there's gonna be one for version 1.28, 1 dot version 29.
You'll even have a one for version 1.27 and 1.26.
So we are going to be upgrading to version 1.29,
so we just have to change this to be nine.
And then there's a second command in here,
which is right here,
"Download the public signing key
"for the Kubernetes package repositories."
So this is, once again, we're gonna copy this.
I'm gonna open up my Notepad and I'm gonna paste it in here.
And once again, we're gonna make sure
that we specify the version that we want to upgrade to,
which is gonna be something in the version 1.29 release.
So now if I just scroll down here,
that should be everything that we do.
And then after we run those two commands,
we can do an apt-get update and we should be all set.
So I'm going to go back to my cluster
and I'm going to paste those two commands in.
All right, and the next thing I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna do this same thing on my worker node.
So I'm gonna SSH to my worker node
and we'll copy those two commands once again.
And keep in mind,
if you have like a 3, 4, 5, 10-node cluster,
you're gonna do this on all of your nodes.
All right, so that's all set.
So now we're gonna go back to the documentation,
and right here it's telling us,
"Determine which version to upgrade to."
So obviously, you know, as I said,
we're gonna be upgrading from version 1.28 to version 1.29,
but what specific version within the 1.29 minor release
do we want to upgrade to?
So first of all, we have to see
what are the available versions
and we're just gonna select the latest version
in the 1.29 train.
So we're gonna copy this, we're gonna do an update,
and then we'll do an apt-cache madison kubeadm.
So that's gonna show us what is the latest version
in version 1.29 for kubeadm.
And that way we can go ahead and download it
and set that up.
So I'll just do this on the control plane node.
So after we update, I'll then run this madison command
and this is gonna show us the available versions.
And we can see all of the different versions,
we've got 1.29.0-1.1, and we want the top one here,
which is gonna be the latest one,
which is 1.29.3-1.1.
So I'm gonna just copy this
and I'm gonna save this in my notes just for reference.
So now if I go back to the documentation,
we're gonna start off by upgrading the control plane nodes.
You always upgrade the control plane
and then you upgrade the worker nodes.
So just pick one of your control plane nodes,
doesn't really matter which one.
And we're gonna follow the following steps right here.
So we're gonna upgrade the kubeadm tool first.
So we're gonna copy this command for upgrading it
and we're gonna copy it and paste it
into this text editor once again.
Reason why I'm doing this,
we have to change a few values here.
So this is what we want to upgrade to,
so right here, if we just change the value here
to be the specific version that we want,
then I can just copy this, go back to my cluster,
and paste this into my control plane node.
So the only thing it's gonna do
is it's going to upgrade the kubeadm tool.
So to be able to upgrade to version 1.29,
we have to actually upgrade kubeadm first,
so that kubeadm can then upgrade the cluster
to version 1.29.
All right, so that's complete.
Let's verify that it actually got upgraded.
So if I do kubeadm version,
it should show that version 1.29.
And we can see version 1, minor version 29,
and we can see GitVersion 1.29.3, perfect.
Now if we go back to the documentation,
the next thing we want to do is run
the sudo kubeadm upgrade plan.
So the plan command is just gonna walk us through
the different versions that we can upgrade our cluster to
and it's gonna make sure that there aren't some sort
of like, compatibility issues.
And it's gonna let us know if there's going
to be some problems if we try to perform an upgrade
to a specific version.
So it's just kind of like a dry run just to make sure
that, you know, everything looks okay
and it's gonna tell us, like,
hey, what are the different components
that kubeadm will upgrade for us automatically,
and what are the different components
that we'll have to manually upgrade afterwards as well?
So I'll copy this.
We're gonna run this once again
on that same control plane node.
So let's take a look at the output
of the upgrade plan command.
So right here we can see
the steps it's kind of going through.
So it's just verifying a few things.
Right here, it's going to let us know
that right now our kubeadm is set to version 1.29.3,
cluster is set to version 1.28.0.
And here it says the components
that have to be upgraded manually
after you upgrade the control plane,
which is gonna be the kubelet process.
And so this first section will show us how to upgrade
to the latest version in the 1.28 minor release,
which is 1.28.8.
So if we wanted to go to 1.28.8,
we would have to upgrade the kubelet manually,
kubeadm never upgrades the kubelet for us,
but the components that will get upgraded
by kubeadm are the following components.
So it can actually upgrade all of those
for us automatically.
And if we want to do that,
we can always do a kubeadm upgrade apply v1.28.8,
but we don't want that, we want to upgrade to 1.29.3,
which is the instructions down here.
And so it's gonna let us know
we have to manually upgrade kubelet, right?
Because kubelet is not running in a pod,
so we have to upgrade it ourselves.
But kubeadm will upgrade all the other components
to version 1.29.3.
All we have to do is just run
the kubeadm upgrade apply v1.29.3 command.
And so if we go back to the documentation, right,
we ran the plan command,
the next thing we have to do
is we have to run that sudo kubeadm upgrade apply command,
which is exactly what we're gonna do.
So I can just copy this,
and just do a sudo, and then paste this,
and it's going to perform the upgrade process for us.
All right, so the upgrade was successful
and it's successfully completed.
Now if I do a kubectl get node,
you're gonna see something interesting.
You're gonna see that it still points to version 1.28.0.
Well, why is that?
I thought we just upgraded,
it says we've successfully upgraded.
Well keep in mind when you do a kubectl get node,
and you see the version column here, this version column,
it pulls the version that your kubelet is running.
So our kubelet, remember,
based off the kubeadm plan command,
it needs to be upgraded manually afterwards,
after kubeadm is run.
So this version is just getting pulled
from whatever version your kubelet is running,
so that's why it still says version 1.28.0.
Once we upgrade kubelet, it'll then point to 1.29.3.
But let's go back to the documentation
and let's go ahead and see the next steps.
So after we run the kubeadm upgrade apply,
the next thing that we have to do
is if we do need to upgrade the CNI provider plugin,
you know, maybe after a certain version
you have to upgrade the plugin
so that it can operate seamlessly with the newer version,
then go ahead and upgrade it at this point.
There's no changes that we need to make
to our provider plugin, so we're gonna skip that step.
Then if we're running multiple control plane nodes,
which in our case we only have one,
but if you had more than one, then all you would have to do
is you'd have to run the same commands.
So you would go back to when we updated
the package repository.
So run those two commands,
then you would want to upgrade kubeadm
to that specific version.
And then all you have to do
is instead of running a kubeadm upgrade apply,
you would run a kubeadm upgrade node command
on the control plane node.
Then once you've done that,
we have now successfully upgraded
all of the control plane components
on the control plane nodes, or the master nodes.
The next thing we have to do is we have to upgrade
the kubelet processes on the control plane nodes.
So anytime you're messing with the kubelet process,
we want to make sure we drain the nodes of all of the pods.
And yes, we have to drain the nodes
on the control plane nodes as well
because they do have pods running on them
like the, you know, the core DNS pods
and some of the other control plane components
which are run as pods.
So we do want to make sure we drain them
and move them to some of the other control plane components.
So all we have to do is do a kubectl drain,
the name of the node, and then --ignore-daemonsets.
So I can just copy this,
paste that in,
and just change the name of the node,
which is going to be controlplane
as per the output of kubectl get node,
which we got here, the control plane node
is just called controlplane.
So that's been drained.
And then what we'll do is we will upgrade
the kubelet process now.
So to upgrade kubelet, I'm gonna copy this command,
and keep in mind the command they gave us here
will upgrade kubelet as well as kubectl.
So we'll copy that
and I'm gonna paste it below here.
And we're gonna copy the version,
that specific version,
and change these two fields
so that we can upgrade kubeadm,
and kubectl to that specific version.
And then we'll go ahead and paste it in
and then restart the kubelet process.
So I'll copy this,
now we can go ahead and restart the kubelet process.
So now if I do a kubectl get node,
we can see that the control plane node got upgraded
to version 1.29.3.
We can see that scheduling is still disabled
because we drained the node.
So let's go ahead and uncordon the node.
And we can do that by running kubectl uncordon,
and the name of the node.
So I'll say kubectl uncordon controlplane.
Now if I do a get node,
we should see we no longer have the scheduling disabled
next to our control plane node.
Now if you have more than one control plane node,
you would just do the same process
on all the other control plane nodes.
So you would run this command, well first of all,
you would drain the specific control plane node
that you're working on at the moment,
upgrade kubelet and kubectl,
and then after you upgrade it,
do a restart of the kubelet process.
And then you've upgraded the next control plane node.
And you'll just do that one by one
until you've got all of them upgraded.
And then once that's done,
if we go back to the documentation,
we can see that we can now move on
to upgrading worker nodes.
And so there's gonna be instructions
for both types of machines, whether it's a Linux
or a Windows machine.
So I'll open up the Linux one
'cause that was what we're using,
and we could take a look at the instructions.
And so you'll see here you get that same message
about changing package repository,
but we already did that for our worker node
so we don't need to do that again.
And just like we did with the control plane node,
we're gonna have to upgrade kubeadm on our worker node.
So we already have the command
that we need in our text editor.
So that's gonna be the kubeadm one right here.
So we'll copy this
and I'll go to my node01, paste that in.
And then once that's done,
if we take a look at the documentation,
we could run a sudo kubeadm upgrade node.
So we don't do an apply, we do an upgrade node.
All right, so that's done.
And then if we go down here,
it's gonna be very similar to the control plane node.
We have to drain the node of, you know, all of its pods,
and then we have to upgrade the kubelet process.
So let's go ahead and drain that node.
And obviously I have to go to the control plane node
to actually run the command to drain it.
So I'll do kubectl drain node01,
and I forgot the --ignore-daemonsets.
And then after we do that,
we're gonna upgrade kubelet and kubectl
if you do have kubectl on your node machine.
Keep in mind, you don't technically need
to have that on there, but if you do,
go ahead and upgrade that as well.
And once again, we have the command for that,
that's why I saved it in the text editor.
We'll go back to node01.
So after upgrading the kubelet process,
we're gonna have to then restart it.
So I'll copy these two commands.
And then the last thing that we have to do
is we have to uncordon the node
so that we can deploy pods on it again.
So I'll do kubectl uncordon node01.
And this node has been officially upgraded,
so if I do a kubectl get node,
we can see that they're both running version 1.29.3.
Now you're obviously gonna have more than one worker node,
so after you've finished upgrading your first worker node,
you just follow these instructions again
on the next worker node.
So you're going to do the same thing.
You're going to upgrade the kubeadm tool.
You're gonna run the sudo kubeadm upgrade node,
then you'll drain the node
before you update the kubelet process.
You'll then update the kubelet process,
restart kubelet, and then uncordon the node.
And you'll just do that on all your working nodes
one by one until your entire cluster has been upgraded.
And so that's going to wrap up this demo.
I just walked you guys through
how to upgrade a Kubernetes cluster using the kubeadm tool.

--- Lab - Cluster Upgrade ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Backup and Restore Methods ---

In this lecture we look at the various backup and restore methodologies.
Let's start by looking at what you should consider backing up in a Kubernetes cluster.
So far in this course, we have deployed a number of different applications on our Kubernetes cluster
using deployment pods and service definition files.
We know that the etcd cluster is where all cluster related information is stored.
And if your applications are configured with persistent storage, then that is another candidate for
backups.
With respect to resources that we created in the cluster, at times we use the imperative way of creating
an object by executing a command, such as while creating a namespace or a secret or configmap, or
at times for exposing applications.
And at times we used the declarative approach by first creating a definition file and then running the
kube control apply command on that file.
This is the preferred approach if you want to save your configuration, because now you have all the
objects required for a single application in the form of object definition files in a single folder.
This can easily be reused at a later time or shared with others.
Of course, you must have a copy of these files saved at all times.
A good practice is to store these on source code repositories.
That way it can be maintained by a team.
The source code repository should be configured with the right backup solutions with managed or public
source code repositories like GitHub.
You don't have to worry about this.
With that, even when you lose your entire cluster, you can redeploy your application on the cluster
by simply applying these configuration files on them.
While the declarative approach is the preferred approach, it is not necessary that all of your team
members stick to those standards.
What if someone created an object the imperative way without documenting that information anywhere?
So a better approach to backing up resource configuration is to query the cube API server, query the
cube API server using the cube control, or by accessing the API server directly, and save all resource
configurations for all objects created on the cluster as a copy.
For example, one of the commands that can be used in a backup script is to get all pods and deployments
and services in all namespaces using the kube control utilities.
Get all command and extract the output in YAML format, then save that file.
And that's just for a few resource group.
There are many other resource groups that must be considered.
Of course you don't have to develop that solutions yourself.
There are tools like Arc or now called Valero by Heptio that can do this for you.
It can help in taking backups of your Kubernetes cluster using the Kubernetes API.
Let us now move on to etcd.
The etcd cluster stores information about the state of our cluster.
So information about the cluster itself, the nodes and every other resources created within the cluster
are stored here.
So instead of backing up resource as before, you may choose to backup the etcd server itself.
As we have seen, the etcd cluster is hosted on the master nodes.
While configuring etcd, we specified a location where all the data would be stored.
The data directory that is, the directory that can be configured to be backed up by your backup tool.
Etcd also comes with a built in snapshot solution.
You can take a snapshot of the etcd database by using the etcd control utilities.
Snapshot save command.
Give the snapshot a name.
Snapshot A snapshot file is created by the name in the current directory.
If you want it to be created in another location, specify the full path.
You can view the status of the backup using the snapshot status command.
To restore the cluster from this backup at a later point in time.
First stop the kube API server service, as the restore process will require you to restart the etcd
cluster, and the API server depends on it.
Then run the etcd controls snapshot restore command with the path set to the path of the backup file,
which is the snapshot db file.
When etcd restores from a backup, it initializes a new cluster configuration and configures the members
of etcd as new members to a new cluster.
This is to prevent a new member from accidentally joining an existing cluster on running this command.
A new data directory is created in this example at location var lib etcd from backup.
We then configure the etcd configuration file to use the new data directory.
Then reload the service daemon and restart etcd service.
Finally, start the kube API server service.
Your cluster should now be back in the original state.
A quick note before I let you go with all the etcd commands, remember to specify the certificate files
for authentication.
Specify the endpoint to the etcd cluster and the certificate, the server certificate and the key.
So we have seen two options a backup using etcd and backup by querying the kube API server.
Now both of these have their pros and cons.
Well if you're using a managed Kubernetes environment, then at times you may not even have access to
the etcd cluster.
In that case, backup by querying the kube API server is probably the better way.
Well, that's it for this demo.
Head over to the practice test and practice backing up etcd in a cluster and then restoring from backups.

--- Working with ETCDCTL and ETCDUTL ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Backup and Restore Methods ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Certification Exam Tip! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- References ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Security - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello and welcome to this section
on security in Kubernetes.
My name is Mumshad Mannambeth,
and we are going through
the certified Kubernetes Administrators Course.
In this section of the course, we will start with
understanding the Kubernetes security primitives.
How does someone gain access to the Kubernetes cluster?
And how are their actions controlled, et cetera,
at a high level?
We then start with
the various authentication mechanisms available.
We will look at the default settings in the cluster
and we practice
viewing configurations of an existing cluster.
We discuss about TLS certificates
and how various components within the cluster
are secured using TLS certificates.
If you are a Kubernetes administrator
and you set up a cluster on your own
you are bound to face challenges related to certificates,
which is why we discuss these from ground up,
from the absolute basics.
This is one of the sections that I spent a lot of time on.
I wanted to simplify
some of the core concepts around certificates,
which is why I've added a number of prerequisite lectures
for those who are new to this topic.
We sent out a poll while working on this section
to understand your knowledge about TLS certificates,
and most of you said you were absolute beginners,
which is why we thought it would be good
to explain some of these well.
Especially since there are
so many certificates used within the cluster
between various components
and it can be quite confusing for a beginner.
These lectures
and the practice tests associated with them
should help bridge that gap.
But you might have to be a bit patient with me on this.
Our goal is to enable you to tackle
any security related or certificate related issues
by the end of this section.
These prerequisite lectures may not be for everyone,
so depending on your level of expertise with certificates,
feel free to skip some of these lectures as required.
We then move on to authorization,
where we look at the various authorization mechanisms
and we focus specifically on role-based access controls.
We then discussed how to secure images in your environment,
followed by security contacts,
and finally, network policies.
So a lot of lectures and practice tests coming up.
Take it easy, and I hope you enjoy it.

--- Kubernetes Security Primitives ---

In this lecture we look at the security parameters in Kubernetes.
Kubernetes being the go to platform for hosting production grid applications.
Security is of prime concern.
In this lecture we look at the various security primitives in Kubernetes.
At a high level, before diving deeper into those in the upcoming lectures, let's begin with the hosts
that formed the cluster itself.
Of course, all access to these hosts must be secured root access disabled, password based authentication
disabled, and only SSH key based authentication to be made available.
And of course, any other measures you need to take to secure your physical or virtual infrastructure
that hosts Kubernetes.
Of course, if that is compromised, everything is compromised.
Our focus in this lecture is more on Kubernetes related security.
What are the risks and what measures do you need to take to secure the cluster?
As we have seen already, the kube API server is at the center of all operations within Kubernetes.
We interact with it through the kube control utility or by accessing the API directly.
And through that you can perform almost any operation on the cluster.
So that's the first line of defense.
Controlling access to the API server itself.
We need to make two types of decisions.
Who can access the cluster and what can they do.
Who can access the API server is defined by the authentication mechanisms.
There are different ways that you can authenticate to the API server certificates, or even a integration
with external authentication providers like Ldap.
Finally, for machines we create service accounts.
We will look at these in more detail in the upcoming lectures once they gain access to the cluster.
What can they do is defined by authorization mechanisms.
Authorization is implemented using role based access controls, where users are associated to groups
with specific permissions.
In addition, there are other authorization modules like the attribute based access Control node, Authorizers,
webhooks, etc. again, we look at these in more detail in the upcoming lectures.
All communication with the cluster between the various components such as the etcd cluster, the kube
controller, manager, scheduler, API server, as well as those running on the worker nodes such as
the Kubelet and kube proxy, is secured using TLS encryption.
We have a section entirely for this, where we discuss and practice how to setup certificates between
the various components.
What about communication between applications within the cluster?
By default, all pods can access all other pods within the cluster.
Now you can restrict access between them using network policies.
We will look at how exactly that is done later in the network policies section.
So that was a high level overview of the various security primitives in Kubernetes.
We will now look at these in much more detail going forward.

--- Authentication ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture on authentication in a Kubernetes cluster.
As we have seen already, the Kubernetes cluster consists of multiple nodes physical or virtual, and
various components that work together.
You have users, like administrators that access the cluster to perform administrative tasks, the developers
that access the cluster to test or deploy applications.
We have end users who access the applications deployed on the cluster, and we have third party applications
accessing the cluster for integration purposes.
Throughout this section, we will discuss how to secure our cluster by securing the communication between
internal components and securing management access to the cluster through authentication and authorization
mechanisms.
In this lecture, our focus is on securing access to the Kubernetes cluster with authentication mechanisms.
So we talked about the different users that may be accessing the cluster.
Security of end users who access the applications deployed on the cluster is managed by the applications
themselves internally.
So we will take them out of our discussion.
Our focus is on users access to the Kubernetes cluster for administrative purposes.
So we are left with two types of users humans, such as the administrators and developers, and robots,
such as other processes or services or applications that require access to the cluster.
Kubernetes does not manage user accounts natively.
It relies on an external source, like a file with user details or certificates, or a third party identity
service like Ldap to manage these users.
And so you cannot create users in a Kubernetes cluster or view the list of users like this.
However, in case of service accounts, Kubernetes can manage them.
You can create and manage service accounts using the Kubernetes API.
We have a section on service accounts exclusively where we discuss and practice more about service accounts.
For this lecture we will focus on users in Kubernetes, all user access is managed by the API server.
Whether you're accessing the cluster through kube control tool or the API directly.
All of these requests go through the kube API server.
The kube API server authenticates the requests before processing it.
So how does the kube API server authenticate?
There are different authentication mechanisms that can be configured.
You can have usernames and tokens in a static token file.
Or you can authenticate using certificates.
And another option is to connect to third party authentication protocols like Ldap, Kerberos, etc..
We will look at some of these next.
Let's start with static password and token files as it is the easiest to understand.
In the CSV file with the user details that we saw, we can optionally have a fourth column with the
group details to assign users to specific groups.
Similarly, instead of a static password file, you can have a static token file.
Here, instead of password, is.
Specify a token.
Pass the token file as an option token auth file to the cube API server.
While authenticating, specify the token as an authorization bearer token.
Peer requests like this.
That's it for this lecture.
Remember that this authentication mechanism that stores usernames, passwords, and tokens in clear
text in a static file is not a recommended approach as it is insecure.
But I thought this was the easiest way to understand the basics of authentication in Kubernetes.
Going forward, we will look at other authentication mechanisms.
I also want to point out that if you were trying this out in a cube ADM setup, you must also consider
volume mounts to pass in the auth file.
Details about this are available in the article that follows, and remember to set up authorization
for the new users.
We will discuss about authorization later in this course.
In the upcoming lectures, we will discuss about certificate based authentication and how the various
components within Kubernetes cluster are secured using certificates.

--- TLS Introduction ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture on TLS certificates in Kubernetes.
Securing the cluster with TLS and troubleshooting TLS related issues can be especially difficult if
you are not familiar with the basics of TLS certificates.
We sent out a poll during the creation of this course about your knowledge on TLS certificates.
Most of you got back to us saying you had no clue about it or were not very comfortable with it, so
we decided to put together a set of lectures that will help you gain enough knowledge to work with certificates
in Kubernetes.
And of course, these lectures will help you otherwise as well.
If you're comfortable with this concept already, feel free to skip the prerequisite lectures and head
straight over to the ones relevant to Kubernetes.
By the end of this section.
You should be an expert when it comes to working with certificates in general as well as with Kubernetes,
you should be able to easily configure and troubleshoot issues related to certificates, and the only
way to do it, as I understand, is to learn and understand how it works in and out.
And that's what we're going to do in this section.
We will start with the basics of certificates.
In general, if you're already comfortable with certificates, certificate authorities and how they
work, feel free to skip this lecture and go over to the next where we discuss this in Kubernetes terms.

--- TLS Basics ---

In this video, we will look at the absolute basics of what TLS certificates are, why you need them,
and how you can configure certificates to secure SSH or web servers.
A certificate is used to guarantee trust between two parties during a transaction.
For example, when a user tries to access a web server, TLS certificates ensure that the communication
between the user and the server is encrypted and the server is who it says it is.
Let's take a look at a scenario without secure connectivity.
If a user were to access his online banking application, the credentials he types in would be sent
in a plain text format.
The hacker sniffing network traffic could easily retrieve the credentials and use it to hack into the
user's bank account.
Well, that's obviously not safe, so you must encrypt the data being transferred using encryption keys.
The data is encrypted using a key, which is basically a set of random numbers and alphabets.
You add the random number to your data, and you encrypt it into a format that cannot be recognized.
The data is then sent to the server.
The hacker sniffing the network gets the data but can't do anything with it.
However, the same is the case with the server receiving the data.
It cannot decrypt the data without the key.
So a copy of the key must also be sent to the server so that the server can decrypt and read the message.
Since the key is also sent over the same network, the attacker can sniff that as well and decrypt the
data with it.
This is known as symmetric encryption.
It is a secure way of encryption, but since it uses the same key to encrypt and decrypt the data,
and since the key has to be exchanged between the sender and the receiver.
There is a risk of a hacker gaining access to the key and decrypting the data.
And that's where asymmetric encryption comes in.
Instead of using a single key to encrypt and decrypt data, asymmetric encryption uses a pair of keys,
a private key, and a public key.
Well, their private and public keys.
But for the sake of this example, we will call it a private key and a public lock.
We will get back to that at the end, but for now, think of it as a key and a lock pair.
A key which is only with me.
So it's private.
A lock that anyone can access.
So it's public.
The trick here is if you encrypt or lock the data with your lock, you can only open it with the associated
key.
So your key must always be secure with you and not be shared with anyone else.
It's private, but the lock is public and may be shared with others, but they can only lock something
with it no matter what is locked using the public lock.
It can only be unlocked by your private key.
Before we go back to our web server example, let's look at an even simpler use case of securing SSH
access to servers using key pairs.
You have a server in your environment that you need access to.
You don't want to use passwords as they are too risky, so you decide to use key pairs.
You generate a public and private key pair.
You can do this by running the ssh keygen command.
It creates two files id underscore RSA is the private key and id underscore RSA dot pub is the public
key.
Well not a public key a public lock.
You then secure your server by locking down all access to it except through a door that is locked using
your public lock.
It's usually done by adding an entry with your public key into the server's SSH authorized underscore
case file.
So you see, the lock is public and anyone can attempt to break through.
But as long as no one gets their hands on your private key, which is safe with you on your laptop,
no one can gain access to the server.
When you try to SSH, you specify the location of your private key in your SSH command.
What if you have other servers in your environment?
How do you secure more than one server with your key pair?
Well, you can create copies of your public log and place them on as many servers as you want.
You can use the same private key to SSH into all of your servers securely.
What if other users need access to your servers?
Well, they can do the same thing.
They can generate their own public and private key pairs.
As the only person who has access to those servers, you can create an additional door for them and
lock it with their public locks.
Copy their public logs to all the servers, and now other users can access the servers using their private
keys.
Let's go back to our web server example.
You see, the problem we had earlier with symmetric encryption was that the key used to encrypt data
had to be sent to the server over the network, along with the encrypted data.
And so there is a risk of the hacker getting the key to decrypt the data.
What if we could somehow get the key to the server safely?
Once the key is safely made available to the server, the server and client can safely continue communication
with each other using symmetric encryption to securely transfer the symmetric key from the client to
the server.
We use asymmetric encryption.
So we generate a public and private key pair on the server.
We're going to refer to the public lock as public key going forward.
Now that you have got the idea, the ssh keygen command was used earlier to create a pair of keys for
ssh purposes.
So the format is a bit different.
Here.
We use the OpenSSL command to generate a private and public key pair.
And that's how they look.
When the user first accesses the web server using https, he gets the public key from the server.
Since the hacker is sniffing all traffic.
Let us assume he two gets a copy of the public key.
We'll see what he can do with it.
The user.
In fact, the user's browser then encrypts the symmetric key using the public key provided by the server.
The symmetric key is now secure.
The user then sends this to the server.
The hacker also gets a copy.
The server uses the private key to decrypt the message and retrieve the symmetric key from it.
However, the hacker does not have the private key to decrypt and retrieve the symmetric key from the
message it received.
The hacker only has the public key with which he can only lock or encrypt a message, and not decrypt
the message.
The symmetric key is now safely available only to the user and the server.
They can now use the symmetric key to encrypt data and send to each other.
The receiver can use the same symmetric key to decrypt data and retrieve information.
The hacker is left with the encrypted messages and public keys with which he can't decrypt any data.
With asymmetric encryption, we have successfully transferred the symmetric keys from the user to the
server and with symmetric encryption, we have secured all future communication between them.
Perfect.
The hacker now looks for new ways to hack into your account.
And so he realizes that the only way he can get your credentials is by getting you to type it into a
form he presents.
So he creates a website that looks exactly like your bank's website.
The design is the same.
The graphics are the same.
The website is a replica of the actual bank's website.
He hosts the website on his own server.
He wants you to think it's secure.
Two so he generates his own set of public and private key pairs and configures them on his web server.
And finally, he somehow manages to tweak your environment or your network to route your requests,
going to your bank's website, to his servers.
When you open up your browser and type the website address in, you see a very familiar page.
The same login page of your bank that you're used to seeing.
So you you go ahead and type in the username and password.
You make sure you type them https in the URL to make sure the communication is secure and encrypted.
Your browser receives a key, you send encrypted symmetric key, and then you send your credentials
encrypted with the key, and the receiver decrypts the credentials with the same symmetric key.
You've been communicating securely in an encrypted manner, but with the hacker's server.
As soon as you send any credentials, you see a dashboard that doesn't look very much like your bank's
dashboard.
What if you could look at the key you received from the server and say, if it is a legitimate key from
the real bank server, when the server sends the key, it does not send the key alone.
It sends a certificate that has the key in it.
If you take a closer look at the certificate, you will see that it is like an actual certificate,
but in a digital format.
It has information about who the certificate is issued to, the public, key of that server, the location
of that server, etc. on the right you see the output of an actual certificate.
Every certificate has a name on it, the person or subject to whom the certificate is issued to.
That is very important as that is the field that helps you validate their identity is this is for a
web server.
This must match what the user types in in the URL on his browser.
If the bank is known by any other names, and if they like their users to access their application with
the other names as well, then all those names should be specified in this certificate under the subject
Alternative Names section.
But you see, anyone can generate a certificate like this.
You could generate one for yourself saying you're Google and that's what the hacker did.
In this case.
He generated a certificate saying he is your bank's website.
So how do you look at a certificate and verify if it is legit?
That is where the most important part of the certificate comes into play.
Who signed and issued the certificate?
If you generated a certificate then you will have to sign it by yourself.
That is known as a self-signed certificate.
Anyone looking at the certificate you generated will immediately know that it is not a certificate,
because you have signed it.
If you looked at the certificate you received from the hacker closely, you would have noticed that
it was a fake certificate that was signed by the hacker himself.
As a matter of fact, your browser does that for you.
All of the web browsers are built in with a certificate validation mechanism, wherein the browser checks
the certificate received from the server and validates it to make sure it is legitimate.
If it identifies it to be a fake certificate, then it actually warns you.
So then how do you create a legitimate certificate for your web servers that the web browsers will trust?
How do you get your certificates signed by someone with authority?
That's where certificate authorities or CAS comes in.
They're well known organizations that can sign and validate your certificates for you.
Some of the popular ones are Symantec, Digicert, Comodo, Globalsign, etc..
The way this works is you generate a certificate, signing request or CSR using the key you generated
earlier and the domain name of your website.
You can do this again using the OpenSSL command.
This generates a Mai-bangkok CSR file, which is the certificate signing request that should be sent
to the CA for signing.
It looks like this.
The certificate authorities verify your details and once it checks out, they sign the certificate and
send it back to you.
You now have a certificate signed by a CA that the browsers trust.
If hacker tried to get his certificate signed the same way, he would fail during the validation phase
and his certificate would be rejected by the CA.
So the website that he is hosting won't have a valid certificate.
The CS used different techniques to make sure that you are the actual owner of that domain.
You now have a certificate signed by CA that the browsers trust.
But how do browsers know that the CA itself was legitimate?
For example, what if the certificate was signed by a fake CA?
In this case, our certificate was signed by Symantec.
How would the browser know Symantec is a valid CA and that the certificate was in fact signed by Symantec,
and not by someone who says they are Symantec.
The CA themselves have a set of public and private key pairs.
The CA's used their private keys to sign the certificates.
The public keys of all the CAS are built in to the browsers.
The browser uses the public key of the CA to validate that the certificate was actually signed by the
CA themselves.
You can actually see them in the settings of your web browser under certificates.
They are under trusted CAS tab.
Now these are public CAS that help us ensure the public websites we visit like our banks, emails,
etc. are legitimate.
However, they don't help you validate sites hosted privately, say within your organization.
For example, for accessing your payroll or internal email applications.
For that, you can host your own private CAS.
Most of these companies listed here have a private offering of their services a CAS server that you
can deploy internally within your company.
You can then have the public key of your internal CA server installed on all your employees browsers,
and establish secure connectivity within your organization.
So let's summarize real quick.
We've seen why you may want to encrypt messages being sent over a network to encrypt messages.
We use asymmetric encryption with a pair of public and private keys.
An admin uses a pair of keys to secure SSH connectivity to the servers.
The server uses a pair of keys to secure Https traffic.
But for this, the server first sends a certificate signing request to a CA.
The CA uses its private key to sign the CSR.
Remember, all users have a copy of the CAS public key.
The signed certificate is then sent back to the server.
The server configures the web application with the signed certificate.
Whenever a user accesses the web application, the server first sends the certificate with its public
key.
The user, or rather the user's browser, reads the certificate and uses the CA's public key to validate
and retrieve the server's public key.
It then generates a symmetric key that wishes to use going forward for all communication.
The symmetric key is encrypted using the server's public key and sent back to the server.
The server uses its private key to decrypt the message and retrieve the symmetric key.
The symmetric key is used for communication going forward, so the administrator generates a key pair
for securing SSH.
The web server generates a key pair for securing the website with Https.
The certificate authority generates its own set of key pair to sign certificates.
The end user, though, only generates a symmetric key.
Once he establishes trust with the website.
He uses his username and password to authenticate to the web server with the server's key pairs.
The client was able to validate that the server is who they say they are, but the server does not for
sure know if the client is who they say they are.
It could be a hacker impersonating a user by somehow gaining access to his credentials.
Note over the network for sure, as we have secured it already with TLS.
Maybe by some other means.
Anyway, so what can the server do to validate that the client is who they say they are?
For this, as part of the initial trust building exercise, the server can request a certificate from
the client, and so the client must generate a pair of keys and a signed certificate from a valid CA.
The client then sends the certificate to the server for it to verify that the client is who they say
they are.
Now you must be thinking you have never generated a client certificate to access a website.
Well, that's because TLS client certificates are not generally implemented on web servers.
Even if they are, it's all implemented under the hood.
So a normal user don't have to generate and manage certificates manually.
So that was the final piece about client certificates.
This whole infrastructure, including the CA, the servers, the people, and the process of generating,
distributing and maintaining digital certificates is known as Public key infrastructure or PKI.
Finally, let me clear up something before you leave.
I've been using the analogy of a key and lock for private and public keys.
If I give you the impression that only the lock or the public key can encrypt data, then please forgive
me as it's not true.
These are in fact two related or paired keys.
You can encrypt data with any one of them and only decrypt data with the other.
You cannot encrypt data with one and decrypt with the same.
So you must be careful what you encrypt your data with.
If you encrypt your data with your private key, then remember anyone with your public key, which could
really be anyone out there, will be able to decrypt and read your message.
Finally, a quick note on naming convention.
Usually certificates with public key are named CRT or PEM extension.
So that's server server PEM for server certificates or client CRT or client PEM for client certificates.
And private keys are usually with extension key or dash key.
For example server key or server key PEM.
So just remember private keys have the word key in them, usually either as an extension or in the name
of the certificate, and one that doesn't have the word key in them is usually a public key or certificate.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Thank you for watching.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- TLS in Kubernetes ---

1
In this lecture,
2
we look at securing your Kubernetes cluster
3
with TLS certificates.
4
In the previous lecture, we saw what public
5
and private keys are,
6
how a server uses public and private keys
7
to secure connectivity.
8
We will call them serving certificates.
9
We saw what a certificate authority is.
10
We learned that the CA has its own set
11
of public and private key pairs that it uses
12
to sign server certificates.
13
We will call them root certificates.
14
We also saw how a server can request a client
15
to verify themselves using client certificates.
16
So three types of certificates:
17
server certificates configured on those servers,
18
root certificate configured on the CA servers,
19
and then client certificates configured on the clients.
20
And a quick note on naming convention before we go forward.
21
You're going to see a lot
22
of certificate files in this lecture,
23
and it could be very confusing.
24
So use this technique to know which one is which.
25
Usually certificates with public keys are named "crt"
26
or "pem" extension, so that's server.crt, or server.pem
27
for server certificates or client.crt,
28
or client.pem for client certificates.
29
And private keys are usually with extension ".key"
30
or with a "-key" in the file names, for example,
31
server.key or server-key.pem.
32
So just remember, private keys have the word "key" in them,
33
usually either as an extension
34
or in the name of the certificate,
35
and one that doesn't have the word "key" in them
36
is usually a public key or certificate.
37
That's how I remember it.
38
We will now see how these concepts
39
relate to a Kubernetes cluster.
40
The Kubernetes cluster consists of a set of master
41
and worker nodes.
42
Of course, all communication between these nodes
43
need to be secure and must be encrypted.
44
All interactions between all services
45
and their clients need to be secure.
46
For example, an administrator interacting
47
with the Kubernetes cluster
48
through the Kube control utility,
49
or while accessing the Kubernetes API directly
50
must establish secure TLS connection.
51
Communication between all the components
52
within the Kubernetes cluster also need to be secured.
53
So the two primary requirements are
54
to have all the various services within the cluster
55
to use server certificates
56
and all clients to use client certificates
57
to verify they are who they say they are.
58
Let's look at the different components
59
within the Kubernetes cluster
60
and identify the various servers and clients
61
and who talks to who.
62
Let's start with the kube-apiserver.
63
As we know already, the API server exposes
64
an ACTPS service that other components
65
as well as external users use
66
to manage the Kubernetes cluster.
67
So it is a server
68
and it requires certificates
69
to secure all communication with its clients.
70
So we generate a certificate and key pair.
71
We call it "apiserver.crt" and "apiserver.key."
72
We will try to stick to this naming convention
73
going forward.
74
Anything with a ".crt" extension is the certificate
75
and ".key" extension is the private key.
76
Also, remember, these certificate names could be different
77
in different Kubernetes setups depending on who
78
and how the cluster was set up.
79
So these names may be different in yours.
80
In this lecture, we will try to use names
81
that help us easily identify the certificate files.
82
Another server in the cluster is the ETCD server.
83
The ETCD server stores all information about the cluster.
84
So it requires a pair of certificate and key for itself.
85
We will call it "etcd-x-server.crt" and "etcd-x-server.key."
86
The other server component in the cluster
87
is on the worker nodes.
88
There are the Kubelet services.
89
They also expose an HTTPS API endpoint
90
that the Kube API server talks to
91
to interact with the worker nodes.
92
Again, that requires a certificate and key pair.
93
We call it "kubelet.crt" and "kubelet.key."
94
Those are really the server components
95
in the Kubernetes cluster.
96
Let's now look at the client components.
97
Who are the clients who access these services?
98
The clients who access the Kube API server are us,
99
the administrators through Kube Control or REST API.
100
The admin user requires a certificate and key pair
101
to authenticate to the Kube API server.
102
We will call it "admin.crt," and "admin.key."
103
The scheduler talks to the Kube API server to look for pods
104
that require scheduling
105
and then get the API server
106
to schedule the pods on the right worker nodes.
107
The scheduler is a client
108
that accesses the Kube API server.
109
As far as the Kube API server is concerned,
110
the scheduler is just another client, like the admin user.
111
So the scheduler needs to validate its identity
112
using a client TLS certificate.
113
So it needs its own pair of certificate and keys.
114
We will call it "scheduler.crt"
115
and "scheduler.key."
116
The Kube Controller Manager is another client
117
that accesses the Kube API server.
118
So it also requires a certificate for authentication
119
to the Kube API server.
120
So we create a certificate pair for it.
121
The last client component is the Kube proxy.
122
The Kube proxy requires a client certificate
123
to authenticate to the Kube API server,
124
and so it requires its own pair of certificate and keys.
125
We will call them "kube-proxy.crt" and "kube-proxy.key."
126
The servers communicate amongst them as well.
127
For example, the Kube API server communicates
128
with the ETCD server.
129
In fact, of all the components, the Kube API server
130
is the only server that talks
131
to the ETCD server.
132
So as far as the ETCD server is concerned,
133
the Kube API server is a client,
134
so it needs to authenticate.
135
The Kube API server can use the same keys
136
that it used earlier for serving its own API service.
137
The apiserver.crt and the apiserver.key files.
138
Or you can generate a new pair of certificates specifically
139
for the Kube API server to authenticate to the ETCD server.
140
The Kube API server also talks to the Kubelet server
141
on each of the individual nodes.
142
That's how it monitors the worker nodes.
143
For this, again, it can use the original certificates
144
or generate nuances specifically for this purpose.
145
So that's too many certificates.
146
Let's try and group them.
147
There are a set of client certificates mostly used
148
by clients to connect to the Kube API server,
149
and there are a set of server side certificates
150
used by the Kube API server, ETCD server,
151
and Kubelet to authenticate their clients.
152
We will now see how to generate these certificates.
153
As we know already, we need a certificate authority
154
to sign all of these certificates.
155
Kubernetes requires you to have
156
at least one certificate authority for your cluster.
157
In fact, you can have more than one.
158
One for all the components in the cluster,
159
and another one specifically for ETCD, in that case,
160
the ETCD server's certificates,
161
and the ETCD server's client certificates,
162
which in this case is the API server client certificate,
163
will be all signed by the ETCD server CA.
164
For now, we will stick to just one CA for our cluster.
165
The CA, as we know, has its own pair
166
of certificates and key.
167
We will call it "ca.crt" and "ca.key."
168
That should sum up all the certificates used in the cluster.

--- TLS in Kubernetes - Certificate Creation ---

In this lecture, we'll look at how to generate the certificates for the cluster to generate certificates.
There are different tools available such as easy RSA, OpenSSL or SSL etc. or many others.
In this lecture we will use OpenSSL tool to generate certificates.
This is where we left off.
We will start with the CA certificates.
First we create a private key using the OpenSSL command OpenSSL RSA dash out CA key.
Then we use the OpenSSL request command along with the key we just created to generate a certificate
signing request.
The certificate signing request is like a certificate with all of your details, but with no signature.
In the certificate signing request, we specify the name of the component the certificate is for in
the common name or CN field.
In this case, since we are creating a certificate for the Kubernetes CA, we name it Kubernetes CA.
Finally, we sign the certificate using the OpenSSL x509 command and by specifying the certificate signing
request we generated in the previous command.
Since this is for the CA itself, it is self-signed by the CA using its own private key that it generated
in the first step going forward.
For all other certificates, we will use the CA key pair to sign them.
The CA now has its private key and root certificate file.
Great.
Let's now look at generating the client certificates.
We start with the admin user.
We follow the same process where we create a private key for the admin user using the OpenSSL command.
We then generate a CSR and that is where we specify the name of the admin user which is kube admin.
A quick note about the name.
It doesn't really have to be kube admin.
It could be anything.
But remember this is the name that kube control client authenticates with.
And when you run the kube control command.
So in the audit logs and elsewhere This is the name that you will see, so provide a relevant name in
this field.
Finally, generate a signed certificate using the OpenSSL zero nine command.
But this time you specify the CA certificate and the CA key.
You're signing your certificate with the CA key pair.
That makes this a valid certificate within your cluster.
The signed certificate is then output to admin file.
That is the certificate that the admin user will use to authenticate to Kubernetes cluster.
If you look at it, this whole process of generating a key and a certificate pair is similar to creating
a user account for a new user, the certificate is the validated user ID and the key is like the password.
It's just that it's much more secure than a simple username and password.
So this is for the admin user.
How do you differentiate this user from any other users?
The user account needs to be identified as an admin user and not just another basic user.
You do that by adding the group details for the user in the certificate.
In this case, a group named System Masters exist on Kubernetes with administrative privileges.
We will discuss about groups later, but for now it's important to know that you must mention this information
in your certificate signing request.
You can do this by adding group details with the OU parameter while generating a certificate signing
request.
Once it's signed, we now have our certificate for the admin user with admin privileges.
We follow the same process to generate client certificates for all other components that access the
kube API server.
The kube scheduler.
Now the kube scheduler is a system component part of the Kubernetes control plane, so its name must
be prefixed with the keyword system.
The same with kube controller manager.
It is again a system component, so its name must be prefixed with the keyword system and finally kube
proxy.
So far we have created CA certificates.
Then all of the client certificates including the admin, user scheduler, controller manager and kube
proxy.
We will follow the same procedure to create the remaining three client certificates for API servers
and Cubelets.
When we create the server certificates for them, so we will set them aside for now.
Now what do you do with these certificates?
Take the admin certificate for instance to manage the cluster.
You can use this certificate instead of a username and password.
In a Rest API call you make to the kube API server.
You specify the key, the certificate, and the CA certificate as options.
That's one simple way.
The other way is to move all of these parameters into a configuration file called kube config.
Within that, specify the API server endpoint, details, the certificates to use, etc. that is what
most of the Kubernetes clients use.
We will look at kube config in depth in one of the upcoming lectures.
Okay, so we're now left with the server side certificates.
But before we proceed, one more thing.
Remember, in the prerequisite lecture, we mentioned that for clients to validate the certificates
sent by the server and vice versa, they all need a copy of the certificate authorities public certificate,
the one that we said is already installed within the user's browsers.
In case of a web application.
Similarly, in Kubernetes, for these various components to verify each other, they all need a copy
of the CA's root certificate.
So whenever you configure a server or a client with certificates, you will need to specify the CA root
certificate as well.
Let's look at the server side certificates now.
Let's start with the etcd server.
We follow the same procedure as before to generate a certificate for etcd.
We will name it etcd server.
Etcd server can be deployed as a cluster across multiple servers as in a high availability environment.
In that case, to secure communication between the different members in the cluster, we must generate
additional peer certificates.
Once the certificates are generated, specify them while starting the etcd server.
There are key and cert file options where you specify the etcd server keys.
There are other options available for specifying the peer certificates.
And finally, as we discussed earlier, it requires the CA root certificate to verify that the clients
connecting to the etcd server are valid.
Let's talk about the kube API server now.
We generate a certificate for the API server like before.
But wait, the API server is the most popular of all components within the cluster.
Everyone talks to the kube API server.
Every operation goes through the kube API server.
Anything moves within the cluster, the API server knows about it.
You need information.
You talk to the API server and so it goes by many names and aliases within the cluster.
Its real name is Kube API server, but some call it Kubernetes because for a lot of people who don't
really know what goes under the hoods of Kubernetes?
The kube API server is Kubernetes.
Others like to call it Kubernetes.
While some refer to it as Kubernetes default SVC and some like to call it by its full name Kubernetes
default svc dot cluster dot local.
Finally, it is also referred to in some places simply by its IP address, the IP address of the host
running the kube API server, or the pod running it.
So all of these names must be present in the certificate generated for the kube API server.
Only then those referring to the cube API server by these names will be able to establish a valid connection.
So we use the same set of commands as earlier to generate a key.
In the certificate signing request you specify the name kube API server.
But how do you specify all the alternate names?
For that you must create an open SSL config file.
Create an OpenSSL conf file and specify the alternate names in the.
Altnames section of the file.
Include all the DNS names the API server goes by as well as the IP address.
Pass this config file as an option while generating the certificate signing request.
Finally, sign the certificate using the CA certificate and key.
You then have the API server certificate.
It is time to look at where we are going to specify these keys.
Remember to consider the API client certificates that are used by the API server while communicating
as a client to the etcd and Kubelet servers.
The location of these certificates are passed in to the kube API server's executable or service configuration
file.
First, the CA file needs to be passed in.
Remember, every component needs the CA certificate to verify its clients.
Then we provide the API server certificates under the TLS cert options.
We then specify the client certificates used by kube API server to connect to the etcd server again
with the CA file, and finally the kube API server client certificates to connect to the Kubelets.
Next comes the Kubelet server.
The Kubelet server is an https API server that runs on each node responsible for managing the node.
That's who the API server talks to to monitor the node, as well as send information regarding what
pods to schedule on this node.
As such, you need a key certificate pair for each node in the cluster.
Now what do you name these certificates?
Are they all going to be named Cubelets?
No, they will be named after their nodes.
Node zero one, node zero two and node zero three.
Once the certificates are created, use them in the kubelet config file.
As always, you specify the root certificate and then provide the Kubelet node certificates.
You must do this for each node in the cluster.
We also talked about a set of client certificates that will be used by the Kubelet to communicate with
the kube API server.
These are used by the Kubelet to authenticate into the kube API server.
They need to be generated as well.
What do you name these certificates?
The API server needs to know which node is authenticating and give it the right set of permissions.
So it requires the nodes to have the right names in the right format.
Since the nodes are system components like the kube scheduler and the controller manager we talked about
earlier, the format starts with the system keyword followed by node and then the node name.
In this case node one to node zero three.
And how would the API server give it the right set of permissions?
Remember we specified a group name for the admin user.
So the admin user gets administrative privileges.
Similarly, the nodes must be added to a group named system nodes.
Once the certificates are generated, they go into the kube config files as we discussed earlier.
Well that's it for this lecture.
In the next lecture we will see how you can view certificate information and how certificates are configured
by the Kube ADM tool.

--- View Certificate Details ---

In this lecture, we see how we can view certificates in an existing cluster.
So you join a new team to help them manage their Kubernetes environment.
You're a new administrator to this team.
You've been told that there are multiple issues related to certificates in the environment.
So you're asked to perform a health check of all the certificates in the entire cluster.
What do you do?
First of all, it's important to know how the cluster was set up.
There are different solutions available for deploying a Kubernetes cluster, and they use different
methods to generate and manage certificates.
If you were to deploy a Kubernetes cluster from scratch, you generate all the certificates by yourself
as we did in the previous lecture.
Or else, if you were to rely on an automated provisioning tool like kube ADM, it takes care of automatically
generating and configuring the cluster for you while you deploy all the components as native services
on the nodes in the hard way.
The kubectl tool deploys these as pods.
So it's important to know where to look at to view the right information.
In this lecture, we're going to look at a cluster provisioned by kube ADM as an example.
In order to perform a health check, start by identifying all the certificates used in the system.
I've created a sample Excel spreadsheet for you.
Check out the resources linked at the end of this lecture to access it.
So the idea is to create a list of certificate files used, their paths, the names configured on them,
the alternate names configured, if any, the organization the certificate account belongs to the issuer
of the certificate and the expiration date on the certificate.
So how do you get these?
Start with certificate files used for this in an environment set up by Kube ADM.
Look for the kube API server definition file under slash Kubernetes manifests folder.
The command used to start the API server has information about all the certificates it uses.
Identify the certificate file used for each purpose and note it down.
Next, take each certificate and look inside it to find more details about that certificate, for example.
We will start with the API server certificate file.
Run the OpenSSL x509 command and provide the certificate file as input to decode the certificate and
view details.
Start with the name on the certificate under the subject section.
In this case it's kube API server.
Then the alternate names.
The kube API server has many, so you must ensure all of them are there, and then check the validity
section of the certificate to identify the expiry date and then the issuer of the certificate.
This should be the CA who issued the certificate.
Kube ADM names the Kubernetes CA as Kubernetes itself.
Follow the same procedure to identify information about all the other certificates.
Things to look for.
Check to make sure you have the right names, the right alternate names.
Make sure the certificates are part of the correct organization, and most importantly, they are issued
by the right issuer and that the certificates are not expired.
The certificate requirements are listed in detail in the Kubernetes documentation page.
Check the references section for the link.
When you run into issues, you want to start looking at logs.
If you set up the cluster from scratch by yourself and the services are configured as native services
in the OS, you want to start looking at the service logs using the operating system's logging functionality.
In case you set up a cluster with kube ADM, then the various components are deployed as pods.
So you can look at the logs using the kube control logs command followed by the pod name.
Sometimes if the core components, such as the Kubernetes API server or the etcd server are down, the
kube control commands won't function.
In that case, you have to go one level down to Docker to fetch the logs.
List all the containers using the crystal PS a command, and then view the logs using crystal or logs
command followed by the container ID.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice test and practice viewing information about the existing cluster.

--- Resource: Download Kubernetes Certificate Health Check Spreadsheet ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - View Certificates ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - View Certification Details ---

Instructor: So in this video we're going to look
at the solution for the lab on viewing certificate details.
So the first question is to identify the certificate file
used for the kube-api server.
So let's look at the manifest files for the kube-api server.
So we know that they are under etc/kubernetes/manifest
and we have the kube-apiserver.
And if you look at this file, we know that
we need to look for the certificate file
used for the kube-api server.
So these are the files to connect to the ETCD Server.
These are the kubelet, have the proxy
and the certificate
for the kube-api server itself are these.
So we have the certificate file here and the key here.
So /etc/kubernetes/pki/apiserver.crt,
pki/apiserver.crt.
So that's this one.
Okay, so identify the certificate file
used to authenticate kube-apiserver
as a client to ETCD Server.
So this is the kube-apiserver configuration.
And kube-apiserver connecting to ETCD Server,
is connecting to ETCD Server as a client.
So these are the relevant files.
So this is the address of the ETCD Server.
And then you have the cafile, the certfile and the key.
Here we're asked to identify the certificate file
used to authenticate the kube-apiserver to ETCD.
So the cert file is this,
so that's /etc/kubernetes/pki/apiserver-etcd-client.crt,
etcd-client.crt.
Looks like it's this one.
Okay, identify the key used to authenticate
the kubeapi-server to the kubelet server.
So these are the files that are relevant to the kubelet.
And you have a certificate file here.
And then the key,
so that's /etc/kubernetes/pki/apiserver-kubetlet-client.
So a apiserver-kubelet-client,
/etc/kubernetes/pki.
And we're asked to identify the key.
So it's not the crt, it's the one that has key at the end.
Okay, so just to summarize here.
These are the files used by the kube-api server itself
to host itself.
So that's under the /etc/kubernetes/pki.
And then you have the apiserver.crt and apiserver.key.
Everything for connecting to the ETCD Server.
The cafile is under etcd.
But then the API server client files
are still under the pki directory.
And then here to the kubelet client files,
they're still under the pki directory.
And so that's what we were concerned about.
So if you look at it, anything to do
with the Kubernetes API server,
they're under the pki directory.
So either the API server certificate and key itself
or the client files, which are used to connect
to either ETCD or kubelet,
they're all under /etc/kubernetes/pki,
under the pki directory.
So think about it that way.
And then now we're asked to identify
the ETCD Server Certificate used to host
the ETCD Server itself.
So for this we're going to look
at the ETCD Server manifest file.
And here we have the certificate file
is under the etcd directory.
And the key is also under the ETCD directory.
And then you have the cafile.
It's also under the etcd directory.
So anything to do with the ETCD Server itself
for its own hosting is under
the etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd directory.
So in this case,
we're asked to identify the ETCD Server Certificate.
So that's this certificate.
So that's /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt,
that's /etc/kubernetes/pki.
There's no etcd here.
/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt.
So that's this one.
Now identify the ETCD Server CA Root ETCD Server
used to serve the ETCD Server.
So here we have the CA file here
which is a trusted-ca-file.
And this is under the /kubernetes/pki/etcd directory.
So as we discussed, in this case,
the ETCD Server has its own CA file, trusted CA Root file
which is under the etcd directory.
And the kube-api server has its own
which is in a different directory.
So just keep that in mind.
So this is under /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt.
So that's at etcd/ca.crt.
It's this one.
Now, what is the common name
configured on the Kube API Server Certificate.
So we know that the Kube API Server Certificate
is this one
and we'll run that through the openssl x509,
filename, -text and -noout.
So that command is gonna give us this information.
And if you look inside here,
you have information about the certificate.
So the issuer is Kubernetes, but the subject,
which is what this certificate is issued to,
is the common name for that is kube-apiserver.
That's kube-apiserver.
So that's the answer to this question.
That's kube-apiserver.
Now, what is the name of the CA
who issued the Kube API Server Certificate?
If you at here you have the issuer
and the name is Kubernetes.
So Kubernetes is the CA
who issued the Kube API Server Certificate.
Now, which of the below alternate names
is not configured on the Kube API Server?
So as we discussed, the Kube API Server has multiple names.
So it could be controlplane, kubernetes,
kubernetes.default, kubernetes.default.svc,
kubernetes.default.svc.cluster.local
and this IP addresses as well.
So kubernetes, yes.
Controlplane, yes.
Kubernetes.default.svc, yes.
Kube-master, no, there is no kube-master.
So in this case, that's the answer to that question.
Now, what is the common name configured
on the ETCD Server Certificate?
So let's look at the ETCD Server Certificate
and that is this one.
And let's run it through the same command
but we're just going to replace it
with the ETCD Server Certificate.
And here we can see the issuer is etcd-ca.
So ETCD has its own CA,
that's what we need to understand from here.
And if you remember, Kubernetes had the CA, kubernetes,
but here you have another CA.
And then the common name configured
on the ETCD Server Certificate.
If you look at this common name
for the ETCD Server is controlplane.
So this is not the control plane, as this,
this is not the Kubernetes control plane.
This is referring to the ETCD control plane, in fact.
So let's select that.
Now, how long from the issue date
is the Kube API Server Certificate valid for?
So we have the output for the API server here.
And if you look at this,
if you look at the validity, it's not valid before.
So this is basically the starting.
So this is April 17th, 2022
and is valid for until April 17th, 2023.
So that's one year.
Okay.
How long from the issue date
is the Root CA Certificate valid for?
So the Root CA Certificate, as we know, is here.
So let's run the same command.
And if you look at the validity,
it's April 17th, 2022
to April 14th, 2032.
So that's approximately, that's 10 years.
So that's like that.
Okay, so going through a change window.
So there are some changes happening.
Okay, so kubectl suddenly stops responding to your commands
after a change window.
So check it out.
Someone recently modified this particular file,
so you're asked to investigate and fix the issue.
And once you fix the issue,
wait for some time for kubectl to respond.
Okay.
So let's see that.
Let's do a kubectl get something, get pods
and let's see what's happening.
So this might take some time.
Okay, so it says the connection to the server was refused,
did you specify the right host or port?
So apparently none of the Kubernetes commands are working.
So let's see, let's first,
so if this happens, this means that the kubectl utility
is not able to communicate with the Kube API Server.
So we need to look at the status of the Kube API Server.
But you can't do that with the kubectl command
because the kubectl command cannot communicate
with the Kube API Server.
So we have to then use Docker
because we know that these pods
are in fact running as containers
on the host, Docker containers.
So let's do a docker ps,
then grep for kube-apiserver.
And we see that we have the Kube API Server
and we have a Kube API Server that exited
like 27 seconds ago.
And then we have a new Kube API Server.
So let's quickly check the logs of that container
and we see that it has this error,
error while dialing tcp 127.0.0.1:2379.
Now we know that 2379 is a port of ETCD
but this is the ETCD Server port.
So basically the Kube API Server
is not able to connect to the ETCD Server.
So let's look at the ETCD Server then.
So let's do a docker ps -a.
So let's look for ETCD
and we have ETCD part here.
And if you look at this,
let's see if we can find,
okay, so right here it says etcdmain
cannot find /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server-certificate.crt
is not found.
So let's see where that is.
So that's /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd.
If you look at this directory, there is server.crt
but there is no server-certificate.crt.
So that's the error.
So something is changed in the ETCD server.
So let's look at the ETCD
manifest files.
So that's /etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yml.
And let's see where we have this configured
which is server-certificate.crt.
So someone's put in the wrong path to the certificate here.
So that's the crt file, and that's the issue.
So we have to fix this.
So the crt file for ETCD, as we know we have seen earlier
is the server.crt file.
It's not server-certificate, it's just server.crt.
So we're going to modify this.
So let's go in, edit this file
and let's remove this case.
Let's save that.
And let's now give it some time start up.
So let's look at
etcd again.
See that it's powered up now a new pod,
our new container.
So let's check the logs of that container
and see that, I see that it's now,
that error is not no longer there.
So let's see if...
It's still not working.
So we might have to give it some time
for the Kube API Server to pick this up.
So let's check the Kube API Server.
Let's check the logs.
So this is the previous instance of the Kube API server.
So we just have to wait for a new instance to come up.
Okay.
Looks like there's a new container.
Let's check the logs of that container.
So let's do a docker logs.
And we see,
don't see errors anymore so let's check.
Yep.
Okay, so now we have the kubectl utility back
and the node is now ready.
Okay, let's give that a shot.
Okay, so that's success.
After a few hours.
I believe someone's gonna break something again.
So we have the kube-api server and it stopped again.
Check it out.
Let's check that out.
Yep, it looks like that's stopped again.
Now inspect the kube-api server logs
and identify the root cause and fix the issue.
So let's look at the logs again.
Okay, so this time it says,
unable to connect to the server, TLS handshake timeout.
So it looks like there's some issue
with the TLS certificates.
So let's check that again.
So let's check the kube-api server again.
So docker ps -a, grep kube-apiserver
and you see that it exited.
So let's do docker logs.
And here it says, authentication handshake failed,
certificate signed by unknown authority.
Let's see if there's something else.
Okay, so that's the error.
And also here you have some information that,
it's failed to connect to 127.0.0.1:2379.
So we know that 2379 is ETCD Server.
So it's got something to do with the ETCD Server.
So basically the kube-api server
is unable to connect to the ETCD Server
because of handshake issue.
So it's because the certificate
is signed unknown authorities.
So let's check that out.
Let's look at,
let's first look at the ETCD pod,
and see if that has any issues.
So if you look at this, the ETCD container
has been running for four minutes.
So let's check the logs of that container.
And we see that it started,
well, there were no errors,
but then started getting this rejected connection from,
and this is a remote and it's a bad certificate.
So it's rejecting connections from somewhere.
And we assume that that's the kube-api server
trying to connect to that ETCD server.
And that's because it is sending in a bad certificate.
Okay, so let's try to look at the certificates configured
on the API server.
So that's under manifest,
kube-api server.
We're basically focusing on the ETCD itself.
So let's just look at those alone.
Okay, so this is what we need to look at.
So here we have the etcd-cafile
and that's set to /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt
and then you have the etcd-certfile.
This is the client certificate for API server.
So that's apiserver-etcd-client.crt set correctly.
This is the key file.
Again, this is the a API server, at etcd-client.key file
which is right.
And the etcd-servers is set to the correct URL as well.
So as we discussed earlier,
the Kubernetes has its own CA file, which is this.
And ETCD has its own CA file, which is not this.
So ETCD has a CA file,
which is under /kubernetes/pki/etcd
and then the CA file that's here.
So this is the CA file for ETCD.
So here you should be specifying that
and not the the Kubernetes CA file.
So that seems to be the problem.
So let's go in and change.
Okay, you can just add this here, like this.
And let's check the status of Kube API server.
Okay, it started one eight seconds ago.
Let's check the logs.
And we see, we don't see those errors anymore.
These are all informational.
Okay, let's check if
the API server is back up.
Yep, it seems to be back up.
So that was a problem.
So we looked at the logs on the Kube API Server,
we looked at the logs on the ETCD Server
and the containers for both.
And we realized that it was a certificate issue somewhere.
So we went through and looked at the certificate files
configured on each of them
and finally figured out that it was this.
So that was a bit tricky
but that's just something we'll have to keep in mind.
Okay.
Well, that's all for this lab.

--- Certificates API ---

1
In this lecture,
2
we look at how to manage certificates
3
and what the certificate API is in Kubernetes.
4
So what have we done so far?
5
I, as an administrator of the cluster,
6
in the process of setting up the whole cluster,
7
have set up a CA server and bunch of certificates
8
for various components.
9
We then started the services using the right certificates
10
and is all up and working.
11
I'm the only administrator and user of the cluster
12
and I have my own admin certificate and key.
13
A new admin comes into my team.
14
She needs access to the cluster.
15
We need to get her a pair of certificate
16
and key pair for her to access the cluster.
17
She creates her own private key,
18
generates a certificate signing request and sends it to me.
19
Since I'm the only admin,
20
I then take the certificate signing request to my CA server,
21
gets it signed by the CA server
22
using the CA server's private key and route certificate,
23
thereby generating a certificate
24
and then sends the certificate back to her.
25
She now has her own valid pair of certificate and key
26
that she can use to access the cluster.
27
The certificates have a validity period.
28
It ends after a period of time.
29
Every time it expires, we follow the same process
30
of generating a new CSR and getting it signed by the CA.
31
So we keep rotating the certificate files.
32
So we keep talking about the CA server.
33
What is the CA server
34
and where is it located in the Kubernetes setup?
35
The CA is really just the pair of key
36
and certificate files we have generated.
37
Whoever gains access to these pair of files
38
can sign any certificate for the Kubernetes environment.
39
They can create as many users as they want
40
with whatever privileges they want.
41
So these files need to be protected
42
and stored in a safe environment.
43
Say we place them on a server that is fully secure,
44
now that server becomes your CA server.
45
The certificate key file is safely stored in that server
46
and only on that server.
47
Every time you want to sign a certificate,
48
you can only do it by logging into that server.
49
As of now, we have the certificates placed
50
on the Kubernetes master node itself.
51
So the master node is also RCA server.
52
The Kubeadm tool does the same thing.
53
It creates a CA pair of files
54
and stores that on the master node itself.
55
So far we have been signing requests manually,
56
but as in when the users increase and your team grows,
57
you need a better automated way
58
to manage the certificates signing requests,
59
as well as to rotate certificates when they expire.
60
Kubernetes has a built-in certificates API
61
that can do this for you.
62
With the certificates API,
63
you now send a certificate signing request
64
directly to Kubernetes through an API call.
65
This time when the administrator receives
66
a certificate signing request,
67
instead of logging onto the master node
68
and signing the certificate by himself,
69
he creates a Kubernetes API object called
70
CertificateSigningRequest.
71
Once the object is created,
72
all CertificateSigningRequest
73
can be seen by administrators of the cluster.
74
The request can be reviewed and approved easily
75
using Kube control commands.
76
This certificate can then be extracted
77
and shared with the user.
78
Let's see how it is done.
79
A user first creates a key,
80
then generates a certificate signing request
81
using the key with her name on it,
82
then sends the request to the administrator.
83
The administrator takes a key
84
and creates a CertificateSigningRequest object.
85
The CertificateSigningRequest object
86
is created like any other Kubernetes object
87
using a manifest file with the usual fields.
88
The kind is CertificateSigningRequest
89
under the spec section.
90
In the spec section, usages defines
91
how the certificate will be used.
92
Expiration seconds controls certificate validity
93
signer name tells Kubernetes who is allowed
94
to sign the certificate signing request
95
and what kind of certificate is being requested.
96
The request field is where you specify
97
the certificate signing request sent by the user,
98
but you don't specify it as plain text.
99
Instead, it must be encoded using the base 64 command.
100
Then move the encoded text into the request field
101
and then submit the request.
102
Once the object is created,
103
all CertificateSigningRequests can be seen
104
by administrators by running the Kube control,
105
get csr command.
106
Identify the new request and approve the request
107
by running the Kube control certificate approved command,
108
Kubernetes signs the certificate using the CA key pairs
109
and generates a certificate for the user.
110
This certificate can then be extracted
111
and shared with the user.
112
View the certificate by viewing it in a YAML format.
113
The generated certificate is part of the output,
114
but as before, it is in a base 64 and coded format.
115
To decode it, take the text
116
and use the base 64 utilities decode option.
117
This gives the certificate in a plain text format.
118
This can then be shared with the end user.
119
Now that we have seen how it works,
120
let's see who does all of this for us.
121
If you look at the Kubernetes control plane,
122
you see the kube-apiserver, the scheduler,
123
the controller manager, etcd server, et cetera.
124
Which of these components is actually responsible
125
for all the certificate related operations?
126
All the certificate related operations
127
are carried out by the controller manager.
128
If you look closely at the controller manager,
129
you will see that it has controllers in it
130
called as CSR-Approving, CSR-Signing, et cetera,
131
that are responsible for carrying out these specific tasks.
132
We know that if anyone has to sign certificates,
133
they need the CA server's route certificate and private key.
134
The Controller Manager service configuration has two options
135
where you can specify these.
136
Well, that's it for this lecture.
137
Head over to the practice test
138
and play around with the certificate's API
139
and we'll see you in the next lecture.

--- Lab - Certificates API ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Certificates API ---

-: Okay, so let's go through the lab on certificates.
So a new member, Akshay joined our team.
He requires access to our cluster.
The certificate signing request is at the route location.
So,
let's see where we are.
So we are in, we are in route.
So we have Akshay dot CSR, and Akshay dot key.
Let's look at, what's there in those files.
So this is the CSR, so certificate signing request.
And then here is,
that's basically the, the key.
Okay, so that's good.
So create a certificate signing request object
with the name Akshay
with the contents of the Akshay dot CSR file.
So for this we have to create,
there is no
imperative command.
So let's go here.
And in the CSR
or the certificate signing request page on, on Kubernetes.
So we have Kubernetes documentation pages.
We have
this section here
to create certificate signing requests.
So we're gonna get this, because we want to.
Let's, let's skip the first and last lines
because we want to edit this request
and maybe even the expiration dates.
Because that's not required for now.
So I'm going to create a file called Akshay dot
yaml.
I'm gonna paste that.
And what we need to do is
paste in the CSR file here.
So basically, the contents of, actually dot CSR,
needs to go here.
But as you can see, this is in a different format.
So this is basically, base64 encoded format.
So first we need to get the basic C4
encoded format of this and then change this
and change the name now's maybe get rid of this.
Okay, so
let's do that.
So let's, yeah, Cat, actually that's CSR.
And then we paste it through base64.
And then we get this.
Now this command, base64,
by default
prints it in this format with, with new lines.
But that won't work very well here
because it needs to be a single line.
So what we're going to do is
touch W
zero
and that basically prints it in, in a single line.
And then we're just gonna copy this
and just make sure you copied right to here.
Okay.
Then we go in here.
Go.
Request.
Let's paste that.
Okay.
And then we gotta get rid of this line.
That's not required.
And then we have the metadata here.
And this is
Akshay.
Well also,
So the signer name.
So the signer name should be recorded as an
audio kube-apiserver client.
So it's already kube-apiserver client.
Okay, so.
This is good.
Leave that and let's create.
Okay, so it looks like there is
an error.
This is illegal.
Base64 data at input.
Right? Hundreds.
Let's take a look.
If you look here, I think we, we missed
an equal sign.
Let's just do that again.
Yeah, copy that.
And we have a request.
Okay, that seems to be good.
Just gonna align that directly.
And let's save this and let's create that file again.
Okay, so that's done.
Get CSR.
Okay, so the CSR request named Akshay is created
and
you can see it's in a pending state.
So let's give this a shot.
Okay, so that's successful.
And what is the condition of the newly created certificate
signing request object.
So it's in a pending state.
Select pending.
And now we've got to approve the CSR request.
So let's do a kube KUTTL.
Certificate
approve.
and then the name.
That's approved
and we see that it's
indeed, approved.
Now how many CSR requests are available on the cluster?
So if you look at this, we have two requests.
Okay?
So, during a routine check,
you realize that there is a new CSR request.
What is the name of this request?
So let's look at that again.
So we see that there is indeed a new request that's come in.
It's called Agent Smith.
Okay, so it's called Agent Smith.
Now, you're not aware of the request coming in.
Now what groups is the CSR requesting access to?
So you see that there's a request
and now, let's see
what groups it's requesting access to.
So we could do a kube KUTTL with CSR Agent
Smith.
And then do,
view it in, in the YAML format.
That way we get more details.
And here you see under the spec section, you have groups.
And it's requesting for system masters,
system authenticated.
So, system masters
is one that it is requesting
access to.
So the select system masters.
And that doesn't look very right,
because we don't want to give system masters,
which is
the group which is an access
to a group that has all, that has a lot of powers.
So we don't want to do that.
So we want to reject that.
So let's do a kube KUTTL certificate,
deny
Agent
Smith.
Okay.
Next.
Now let's get rid of it.
Delete the new CSR object.
So let's see the status now.
And we see that it's denied.
And we want to now get rid of it.
So we'll do a peddle
delete
CSR
Agent Smith.
Okay, so that should now be gone.
Let's check it again.
Yep. And that's indeed gone.
Okay, so that's the end of this lab.

--- KubeConfig ---

In this lecture we look at kube configs in Kubernetes.
So far we have seen how to generate a certificate for a user.
We have seen how a client uses the certificate file and key to query the Kubernetes Rest API for a list
of pods using curl.
In this case, my cluster is called Minikube playground.
So send a curl request to the address of the kube API server while passing in the pair of files, along
with the certificate as options.
This is then validated by the API server to authenticate the user.
Now how do you do that while using the kube control command?
You can specify the same information using the options server, client key, client certificate and
certificate authority with the kube control utility.
Obviously, typing those in every time is a tedious task.
So you move these information to a configuration file called as kube config, and then specify this
file as the kube config option in your command.
By default, the cube control tool looks for a file named config under a directory cube under the user's
home directory.
So if you create the cube config file there, you don't have to specify the path to the file explicitly
in the cube control command.
That's the reason you haven't been specifying any options for your cube control commands so far.
The cube config file is in a specific format.
Let's take a look at that.
The config file has three sections clusters, users, and contexts.
Clusters are the various Kubernetes clusters that you need access to.
So you have multiple clusters for development environment or testing environment, or prod, or for
different organizations, or on different cloud providers, etc. all those go there.
Users are the user accounts with which you have access to these clusters, for example the admin user,
a dev user, a prod producer, etc. these users may have different privileges on different clusters.
Finally, contexts marry these together.
Context define which user account will be used to access which cluster.
For example, you could create a context named admin at production that will use the admin account to
access a production cluster.
Or I may want to access the cluster I have set up on Google with the dev user's credentials to test
deploying the application I built.
Remember, you're not creating any new users or configuring any kind of user access or authorization
in the cluster.
With this process, you're using existing users with their existing privileges and defining what user
you're going to use to access what cluster.
That way, you don't have to specify the user certificates and server address in each and every kube
control command you run.
So how does it fit into our example?
The server Service specification in our command goes into the cluster section.
The admin users keys and certificates goes into the users section.
You then create a context that specifies to use the Mycube admin user to access the Mycube playground
cluster.
Let's look at a real Kubeconfig file.
Now the Kubeconfig file is in YAML format.
It has API version set to v1.
The kind is config and then it has three sections as we discussed.
One for clusters, one for contexts, and one for users.
Each of these is in an array format.
That way you can specify multiple clusters, users, or contexts within the same file.
Under clusters, we add a new item for our Cube Playground cluster.
We name it My Cube Playground and specify the server address under the server field.
It also requires the certificate of the certificate authority.
We can then add an entry into the users section to specify details of my cube admin user, provide the
location of the client certificate and key pair.
So we have now defined the cluster and the user to access the cluster.
Next, we create an entry under the context section to link the two together.
We will name the context my Cube admin at my cube playground.
We will then specify the same name we used for cluster and user.
Follow the same procedure to add all the clusters.
You daily access the user credentials you use to access them as well as the contexts.
Once the file is ready, remember that you don't have to create any object like you usually do for other
Kubernetes objects.
The file is left as is and is read by the cube control command and the required values are used.
Now how does cube control know which context to choose from?
We have defined three contexts here.
Which one should it start with?
You can specify the default context to use by adding a field current context to the kubeconfig file.
Specify the name of the context to use.
In this case, kube control will always use the context dev user at Google to access the Google clusters
using the dev user's credentials.
There are command line options available within kube control to view and modify the Kubeconfig files.
To view the current file being used, run the kube control config view command.
It lists the cluster's context and users, as well as the current context that is set.
As we discussed earlier, if you do not specify which kubeconfig file to use, it ends up using the
default file located in the folder kube in the user's home directory.
Alternatively, you can specify a kubeconfig file by passing the kube config option in the command line
like this.
We will move our custom config to the home directory, so this becomes our default config file.
So how do you update your current context.
So you've been using minikube admin user to access my Kube playground.
How do you change the context to use prod user to access the production cluster?
Run the kube control config.
Use context command to change the current context to the producer at production context.
This can be seen in the current context field in the file.
So yes, the changes made by kube control config command actually reflects in the file.
You can make other changes in the file update or delete items in it using other variations of the kube
control config command.
Check them out when you get time.
What about namespaces for example?
Each cluster may be configured with multiple namespaces within it.
Can you configure a context to switch to a particular namespace?
Yes.
The context section in the Kubeconfig file can take additional field called namespace, where you can
specify a particular namespace.
This way when you switch to that context, you will automatically be in a specific namespace.
Finally, a word on certificates you have seen.
Paths to certificate files mentioned in Kubeconfig.
Like this.
Well, it's better to use the full path like this.
But remember, there's also another way to specify the certificate credentials.
Let's look at the first one for instance where we configure the path to the certificate authority.
We have the contents of the file on the right.
Instead of using certificate authority field and the path to the file, you may optionally use the Certificate
Authority data field and provide the contents of the certificate itself, but not the file as is.
Convert the contents to a base64 encoded format and then pass that in.
Similarly, if you see a file with the certificates data in the encoded format, use the base64 decode
option to decode the certificate.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Practice Exercises section.
Practice working with Kubeconfig files and troubleshooting issues.

--- Lab - KubeConfig ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - KubeConfig ---

-: Okay, so let's go through the lab
on cube config or security context.
So where is the default cube config file located
in the current environment?
Find the current home directory
by looking at the home environment variable.
So let's look at home.
And home is set to root,
which is the current directory we are in.
So we know that it's usually
under the hidden cube directory.
So we have a cube directory here.
And then, and you have config here.
So if you look at this, you have dot cube slash config
and that's really the cube config file.
So it's at root dot cube slash config.
So root dot cube slash config.
So that's the one.
Now, how many clusters are defined
in the default cube config file?
So if you look at this, the clusters, you have one cluster
and then you have context.
So you just have one cluster.
So that's one.
How many users are defined in the default cube config file?
So here you see the users are just one again.
So here you have the user
and you have the certificate information here.
So it's just one.
How many contacts are defined
in the default cube config file?
If you look at the context, you have one
and that's just one.
So you just have one context.
Now, what is the user configured in the current context?
So if you look at the current context,
it's Kubernetes admin at Kubernetes.
That's the name of the context.
And so that is this.
So this is that context.
And if you look at this, the user is Kubernetes admin.
So remember that this is just the name.
So you shouldn't assume
that this is the actual user, configured,
but it so happens that in this case, the naming
and convention is this user at the cluster.
But you should always look at this field.
So this is the actual user that's configured
for that context.
So it is Kubernetes dash admin.
Now, what is the name of the cluster configured
in the default cube config file?
So the name of the cluster:
so this is the cluster and the name is Kubernetes.
Okay, so a new cube config file named my cube config
is created and it's in the root directory.
So let's look at that,
my cube config,
and it is placed
in the root directory.
And how many clusters are defined in that
cube config file?
So let's look at this file.
So you have 1, 2, 3, 4, 4 clusters.
How many contexts are configured in the my cube config file?
If you look at this, you have 1, 2, 3, 4, 4 context.
What user is configured in the research context?
So if you look at the research context
you see that the user is dev user.
So that's dev user is that user.
Now, what is the name
of the client certificate file configured for the AWS user?
So you have users here and you have AWS user.
The client certificate file.
The file name is AWS user dot crt
so that's AWS user dot crt.
What is the current context set to
in the My Cube config file?
The current context, as you can see here,
is test user at development.
So that's the current context.
That's test user development.
Now, I would like to use the dev user
to access test cluster one.
I'll set the current context to the right one,
so I can do that.
And once the right context is identified
use the cube config file and use context command.
So dev user to access test cluster one.
So we're gonna look at contexts and dev user.
So this is the dev user.
And to access test cluster one
there's already a context called research created.
So we're going to use that.
So what we need to do
is use the cube kubectl config command.
So cube kubectl config command,
and use the context command.
And the context that we're going to use is research.
Now remember that by default,
the cube kubectl config command
will use the default cube config file
which is in root dot cube slash config.
This is in a different file that we want it to work on.
So we have to provide this file name like this.
Okay, so switched to context research.
Let's check it out.
And we see that current context,
but in the file it's set to research.
Okay, let's check the work.
Now, we don't want to have to specify
the cube config file option on each command.
So make the my cube config file
the default cube config file.
So this is what we want to use going forward.
So what we're going to do
is gonna move this cube config file
as the default one, which is available here.
Okay, let's make sure that move was complete.
Yep. So going forward, we don't have to.
We could do a cube config view
and we can see that this is the new view.
Let's check it.
So this is the new file.
Okay, now with the current context set to research,
we are trying to access the cluster.
However, something seems to be wrong.
Identify and fix the issue.
So let's do get notes command.
We see that there's something wrong.
So it says, unable to read client cert atc Kubernetes
PKI users, dev user, developer user dot CRT
for the dev user.
So let's check content of the file.
And we see that the dev user has a client certificate
which is set to Dev user, User crt.
Now all user certificates are stored in this directory.
So let's go here, we have the dev user, let's go here.
And we see that it's dev user dot crt
dev user dot csr, dev user dot key.
So it's dev user dot crt, not developer user dot crt.
So we're gonna have to modify that.
So let's go in and let's change this.
So that's fixed.
Let's try it again.
Yep. That seems to be working.
Okay, so that is the end of this lab.

--- Persistent Key/Value Store ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- API Groups ---

Before we head into authorization, it is necessary to understand about API groups in Kubernetes.
But first, what is the Kubernetes API?
We learned about the kube API server.
Whatever operations we have done so far with the cluster, we've been interacting with the API server
one way or the other, either through the kube control utility or directly via Rest.
Say we want to check the version.
We can access the API server at the master node's address, followed by the port, which is 6443 by
default, and the API version it returns the version.
Similarly, to get the list of pods, you would access the url api slash v1 slash pods.
Our focus in this lecture is about these API paths, the version and the API.
The Kubernetes API is grouped into multiple such groups based on their purpose, such as one for APIs,
one for health, one for metrics and logs, etc. the version API is for viewing the version of the cluster.
As we just saw, the metrics and health API are used to monitor the health of the cluster.
The logs are used for integrating with third party logging applications.
In this video, we will focus on the APIs responsible for the cluster functionality.
These APIs are categorized into two the core group and the named group.
The core group is where all core functionality exists, such as namespaces, pods, replication, controllers,
events, endpoints, nodes, bindings, persistent volumes, persistent volume claims, config maps,
secrets, services, etc..
The named group APIs are more organized and going forward.
All the newer features are going to be made available through these named groups.
It has groups under it for apps, extensions, networking, storage, authentication, authorization,
etc..
Shown here are just a few.
Within apps you have.
deployments, replica sets, stateful sets.
Within networking you have network policies, certificates, have the certificate signing request that
we talked about earlier in this section.
So the ones at the top are API groups and the ones at the bottom are resources in those groups.
Each resource in this has a set of actions associated with them.
Things that you can do with these resources such as.
List the deployments.
Get information about one of these deployments.
Create a deployment, delete a deployment, update a deployment watch a deployment, etc. these are
known as verbs.
The Kubernetes API reference page can tell you what the API group is for each object.
Select an object and the first section in the documentation page shows its group details.
V1 core is just v1.
You can also view these on your Kubernetes cluster.
Access your kube API server at port 643 without any path, and it will list you the available API groups,
and then within the named API groups, it returns all the supported resource groups.
A quick note on accessing the cluster API like that.
If you were to access the API directly through curl as shown here, then you will not be allowed access
except for certain APIs like version, as you have not specified any authentication mechanisms.
So you have to authenticate to the API using your certificate files by passing them in the command line
like this.
An alternate option is to start a kube control proxy client.
The kube control proxy command launches a proxy service locally on port 8001, and uses credentials
and certificates from your kube config file to access the cluster.
That way you don't have to specify those in the curl command.
Now you can access the kube control proxy service at port 8001, and the proxy will use the credentials
from kube config file to forward your request to the kube API server.
This will list all available APIs at root.
So here are two terms that kind of sound the same.
The kube proxy and kube control proxy.
Well they are not the same.
We discussed about kube proxy earlier in this course.
It is used to enable connectivity between pods and services across different nodes in the cluster.
We discussed about kube proxy in much more detail later in this course.
Whereas kube control proxy is an HTTP proxy service created by kube control utility to access the kube
API server.
So what to take away from this?
All resources in Kubernetes are grouped into different API groups.
At the top level you have core API group and named API group.
Under the named API group you have one for each section.
Under this API groups you have the different resources and each resource has a set of associated actions
known as verbs.
In the next section on authorization, we can see how we use these to allow or deny access to users.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
I will see you in the next.

--- Authorization ---

So far we talked about authentication.
We saw how someone can gain access to a cluster.
We saw different ways that someone, a human or a machine can get access to the cluster.
Once they gain access, what can they do?
That's what authorization defines.
First of all, why do you need authorization in your cluster as an administrator of the cluster?
We were able to perform all sorts of operations in it, such as viewing various objects like pods and
nodes and deployments, creating or deleting objects such as adding or deleting pods or even nodes in
the cluster.
As an admin, we're able to perform any operation, but soon we will have others accessing the cluster
as well, such as the other administrators, developers, testers, or other applications like monitoring
applications or continuous delivery applications like Jenkins, etc. so we will be creating accounts
for them to access the cluster by creating usernames and passwords or tokens or signed TLS certificates
or service accounts, as we saw in the previous lectures.
But we don't want all of them to have the same level of access as us.
For example, we don't want the developers to have access to modify our cluster configuration, like
adding or deleting nodes or the storage or networking configurations.
We can allow them to view but not modify, but they could have access to deploying applications.
The same goes with service accounts.
We only want to provide the external application the minimum level of access to perform its required
operations.
When we share our cluster between different organizations or teams by logically partitioning it using
namespaces, we want to restrict access to the users to their namespaces alone.
That is what authorization can help you within the cluster.
There are different authorization mechanisms supported by Kubernetes, such as node authorizer, attribute
based access control, role based access control, and webhook.
Let us go through these now.
We know that the cube API server is accessed by users like us for management purposes, as well as the
Cubelets or nodes within the cluster for management purposes within the cluster.
The Cubelet accesses the API server to read information about services, endpoints, nodes, and pods.
The Cubelet also reports to the cube API server with information about the node, such as its status.
These requests are handled by a special authorizer known as the node authorizer.
In the earlier lectures, when we discussed about certificates, we discussed that the Cubelets should
be part of the system nodes group and have a name prefixed with system node.
So any requests coming from a user with the name system node and part of the system nodes group is authorized
by the node authorizer and are granted these privileges.
The privileges required for a Cubelet.
So that's access within the cluster.
Let's talk about external access to the API.
For instance, a user attribute based authorization is where you associate a user or a group of users
with a set of permissions.
In this case, we say the dev user can view, create, and delete pods.
You do this by creating a policy file with a set of policies defined in a JSON format.
This way you pass this file into the API server.
Similarly, we create a policy definition file for each user or group in this file.
Now, every time you need to add or make a change in the security, you must edit this policy file manually
and restart the kube API server.
As such, the attribute based access control configurations are difficult to manage.
We will look at role based access controls next.
Role based access controls make this much easier with role based access controls.
Instead of directly associating a user or a group with a set of permissions.
We define a rule in this case for developers.
We create a rule with the set of permissions required for developers.
Then we associate all the developers to that role.
Similarly, create a role for security users with the right set of permissions required for them.
Then associate the user to that role going forward whenever a change needs to be made to the user's
access.
We simply modify the role and it reflects on all developers immediately.
Role based access controls provide a more standard approach to managing access within the Kubernetes
cluster.
We will look at role based access controls in much more detail in the next lecture.
For now, let's proceed with the other authorization mechanisms.
Now what if you want to outsource all the authorization mechanisms?
Say you want to manage a authorization externally and not through the built in mechanisms that we just
discussed.
For instance, Open Policy Agent is a third party tool that helps with admission control and authorization.
You can have Kubernetes make an API call to the open policy agent with the information about the user
and his access requirements, and have the open policy agent decide if the user should be permitted
or not.
Based on that response, the user is granted access.
Now there are two more modes in addition to what we just saw always allow and always deny.
As the name states, Always allow allows all requests without performing any authorization checks.
Always deny denies all requests.
So where do you configure these modes?
Which of them are active by default?
Can you have more than one at a time?
How does authorization work?
If you do have multiple ones configured, the modes are set using the authorization mode option on the
kube API server.
If you don't specify this option, it is set to always allow by default.
You may provide a comma separated list of multiple modes that you wish to use.
In this case, I want to set it to node, Rbac and webhook.
When you have multiple modes configured, your request is authorized using each one in the order it
is specified.
For example, when a user sends a request, it's first handled by the node authorizer.
The node authorizer handles only node requests, so it denies the request.
Whenever a module denies a request, it is forwarded to the next one in the chain.
The role based access control module performs its checks and grants.
The user permission.
Authorization is complete and user is given access to the requested object.
So every time a module denies a request, it goes to the next one in the chain, and as soon as a module
approves the request, no more checks are done and the user is granted permission.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
In the upcoming lectures, we will discuss more about role based access controls.

--- Role Based Access Controls ---

In this lecture, we look at role based access controls in much more detail.
So how do we create a role?
We do that by creating a role object.
So we create a role definition file with the API version set to Rbac, dot authorization, dot k.io
v1, and kind set to role.
We name the role developer as we are creating this role for developers.
And then we specify rules.
Each rule has three sections API groups, resources and verbs.
The same things that we talked about in one of the previous lectures.
For core group.
You can leave the API groups section as blank.
For any other group, you specify the group name.
The resources that we want to give developers access to are pods.
The actions that they can take are list, get, create, and delete.
Similarly, to allow the developers to create config maps, we add another rule to create config map.
We can add multiple rules for a single role like this.
Create the rule using the cube control.
Create rule command.
The next step is to link the user to that rule.
For this we create another object called rule binding.
The rule binding object links a user object to a rule.
We will name it dev user to developer binding.
The kind is rule binding.
It has two sections.
The subjects is where we specify the user details.
The rule ref section is where we provide the details of the rule we created.
Create the rule binding using the cube control create command.
Also note that the roles and role bindings fall under the scope of namespaces.
So here the dev user gets access to pods and Configmaps within the default namespace.
If you want to limit the dev users access within a different namespace, then specify the namespace
within the metadata of the definition file while creating them.
To view the created roles.
Run the Kube control.
Get roles.
Command to list role bindings from the Kube control.
Get role bindings command to view more details about the role.
When the kube control describe role developer command, here you see the details about the resources
and permissions for each resource.
Similarly, to view details about role bindings, run the kube control describe role bindings command.
Here you can see details about an existing role binding.
What if you, being a user, would like to see if you have access to a particular resource in the cluster?
You can use the kube control auth.
Can I command and check if you can say create deployments or say delete nodes?
If you are an administrator, then you can even impersonate another user to check their permission.
For instance, say you were tasked to create necessary set of permissions for a user to perform a set
of operations.
And you did that, but you would like to test if what you did is working.
You don't have to authenticate as the user to test it.
Instead, you can use the same command with the as user option.
Like this.
Since we did not grant the developer permissions to create deployments, it returns null.
The dev user has access to creating pods, though you can also specify the namespace in the command
like this.
The dev user does not have permission to create a pod in the test namespace.
Well, a quick note on resource names.
We just saw how you can provide access to users for resources like pods within the namespace.
You can go one level down and allow access to specific resources alone.
For example, say you have five pods in namespace.
You want to give access to a user to pods, but not all pods.
You can restrict access to the blue and orange pod alone by adding a resource names field to the rule.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Practice Exercises section and practice working with role based access controls.

--- Lab - Role-Based Access Controls ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Role-Based Access Controls ---

Instructor: Okay, in this lab,
we're going to look at role-based access controls.
So the first question is,
inspect the environment and identify authorization modes
configured on the cluster.
So let's look at the kube API server.
So
etc
kubernetes manifests
kube api server.yaml.
And then, here we see the options passed
to the kube API server.
And if you look at the authorization mode,
you have Node and RBAC.
So that's one way of checking that.
The other way is to,
we're gonna look at the processes on the control plane.
So we're gonna do a ps -aux
grep for authorization mode.
So we know that, ultimately,
all containers are running as processes
on the control plane.
So we look at the authorization mode configured
on the kube API server.
So this is basically the kube API server service.
And if you look at the authorization mode,
it's set to Node and RBAC.
These are two ways of finding out
the settings passed to the kube API server.
So it's Node and RBAC.
Now, how many roles exist in the default namespace?
So we're going to do kube cuttle
get roles.
And in the default namespace, there are no roles.
So let's select that.
How many roles exist in all namespaces?
So we're gonna pass in the -A to get all namespaces.
And instead of counting, we're going to do no headers.
So that prints it without this header.
And then we'll do a word count
to count the length and to count all the lines.
And we get,
and the answer to that is 12.
So let's select 12.
Okay, now, what are the resources, the kube proxy role
in the kube system namespace is given access to?
So here we have the kube proxy role.
So let's check that out.
So let's do a kube cuttle
describe role
kube
proxy
-: n
kube system.
System.
And we see that the resources
that this kube proxy role has access to is then config map.
So config maps.
And what actions can the kube proxy role
perform on the config map?
So the actions that it can perform for now is just get.
Oops, I accidentally clicked that.
So which of the following statements are true?
Kube proxy role can get details of a config map object
by the name kube proxy.
So we know that, that's true,
because kube proxy role can
get the config map by the name kube proxy.
Kube proxy role can delete the config map.
It cannot delete the config map,
because it doesn't have the delete verb here.
And the kube proxy rule can only view and update
the config map object by the name.
Obviously, this is incorrect, but still.
So what we need to understand here is that
the kube proxy role can only get
a config map with the resource name kube proxy.
So that's the correct answer.
Now, which account is the kube proxy role assigned to?
So for that, we need to look at role binding.
So let's look at role bindings,
role bindings in the kube system namespace.
And if you look at this, we see that,
so the kube proxy role is part
of the kube proxy role binding.
So let's look at the kube proxy role binding
in a bit more detail.
So you have kube cuttle describe
role bindings
kube proxy
in the default, sorry, in the kube system namespace.
And here you can see the group that it has access
to
for the account that the kube proxy role is assigned to.
So that's system bootstrappers kube admin
default node token,
that's the group that it's assigned to.
So a user, dev user is created,
the user's details have been added to a kube config file.
So let's look at the kube config file,
let's do a kube cuttle config view.
And we can see that there's a user named dev user.
And inspect the permissions granted to the user.
So check if the user can list pods in the default namespace.
So we can do a kube cuttle get pods,
and we can use the ask dev user
option to view as the dev user.
(keyboard keys click)
So as you can see, it's forbidden.
The user, dev user cannot list resource pods
in the API group in the default namespace.
So the dev user has permissions,
does not have permissions, that's the correct answer.
Now, create the necessary roles and role bindings
required for the dev user to create, list,
and delete pods in the default namespace.
So first, we have to create the role,
and role bindings for the dev user.
So we're gonna do a kube cuttle create role.
Let's take a look at the help.
So we have create role and then the role name,
and then the verbs.
So the verbs could be passed in, comma separated,
and the resources that, that role has access to.
So that's going to be,
let us do that.
So it's kube cuttle create role,
and verbs are going to be list,
create and delete.
And resources
are going to be pods.
And let's also give it a name.
The name is developer.
It's resource, I think.
Yep.
So let's describe the role.
We can see that the developer role is created
with list, create and delete access to pods.
Now, we have to create a role binding and bind it to the,
so let's do a kube cuttle create role binding
help.
And we see we can do create a role binding,
the name is gonna be dev user binding,
then the cluster role or
user, our end group.
So what we wanna do is we wanna bind the dev user.
So this one and the role name,
we're gonna use role.
So we're going to use kube cuttle create role binding,
and dev user binding.
And the role is going to be developer.
And
the user is going to be dev user.
Then let's check
the role binding,
dev user binding.
We can see user, dev user
is now associated to developer role.
Okay?
Now, the dev user is trying to get details
about the dark blue app pod in the blue namespace.
But there is an issue.
So investigate and fix the issue.
So let's do that as the dev user.
As dev user,
I'm going to get details
about the pod
dark blue app,
but in the blue namespace.
Perfect, in the blue namespace.
So it says dark blue app is forbidden,
user, dev user cannot get resource pods
in the API group in the namespace blue.
But it says that we have created the required roles
in role binding.
So let's take a look at that.
Let's take a look at the roles in the blue namespace.
We can see that there's a developer role,
and then there's also role bindings in the blue namespace.
So there's the dev user binding role.
So let's take a closer look at those.
Describe
role
developer in the blue namespace.
And we see that
it has resource pods and the resource names,
blue app then can do a get, watch, create and delete.
But here, as you can see, it's not blue,
it's dark blue app.
So that's basically the reason that you can't access that.
So we're going to edit the role developer
in the blue namespace.
And what we're going to do is
change this to dark blue app.
Okay, now, let's do that again.
So we're gonna do a get pod dark blue app
in the blue namespace as the user, dev user.
Okay, and we can see that it is now in a running state.
So that's fixed.
Now, we would like to grant the dev user permissions
to create deployments in blue namespace.
So let's try that.
As the dev user, I want to create a deployment
called nginx, save with image nginx.
This could be anything, this is just a test.
But in the blue namespace, when I try to do that,
it says the user,
dev user cannot create resource deployments
in API group apps in the default,
in the blue namespace.
So what we have to do is we're gonna
edit the role
of developer,
which is used by the dev user in the blue namespace.
And what we're gonna do is,
so this is one rule that allows a get, watch,
and create and delete on the dark blue app pod.
What we're going to do is we're gonna create a new rule.
So we can just copy this and we're just gonna paste that.
And what we'll do is set,
the API groups for deployment is apps.
So we're gonna put apps.
We're not gonna give any resource names,
because we want to be able to create any resource,
any resource name.
Here, we're going to say deployment.
And we're gonna allow get, watch, create, and delete.
Because after creating, we obviously wanna get,
or watch it or even delete.
So let's just give that.
Okay, so that's done.
Let's verify that.
Role developer in the blue namespace.
And we see that we have deployment.apps,
and we're now able to get, watch, create and delete.
So let's try the command again to create a deployment
called nginx in the blue namespace.
Okay, that's still not working.
Let's see where that is.
So actually it should be deployments, sorry about that.
Let's go and change that.
Okay.
And let's try that again.
Okay, and that works.
Yep, so that should be the fix to this.
All right, so that's the end of this lab.

--- Cluster Roles ---

We discussed about roles and role bindings in the previous lecture.
In this lecture we will talk about cluster roles and cluster role bindings.
When we talked about roles and role bindings, we said that roles and role bindings are namespaced,
meaning they are created within namespaces.
If you don't specify a namespace, they are created in the default namespace and control access within
that namespace alone.
In one of the previous lectures, we discussed about namespaces and how it helps in grouping or isolating
resources like pods, deployments, and services.
But what about other resources like nodes?
Can you group or isolate nodes within a namespace?
Like can you say node zero one is part of the namespace?
Now those are cluster wide or cluster scoped resources.
They cannot be associated to any particular namespace.
So the resources are categorized as either namespace or cluster scoped.
code.
Now, we have seen a lot of Namespaced resources throughout this course, like pods and replica sets
and jobs, deployments, services, secrets.
And in the last lecture, we saw two new roles and role bindings.
These resources are created in the namespace you specify when you create them.
If you don't specify a namespace, they're created in the default namespace.
To view them or delete them or update them, you always specify the right namespace.
The cluster scoped resources are those where you don't specify a namespace when you create them like
nodes, persistent volumes persist the cluster roles and cluster role bindings that we're going to look
at in this lecture.
Certificate signing request.
We saw earlier and namespace objects themselves are of course not namespaced.
Note that this is not a comprehensive list of resources.
To see a full list of namespaces and non namespace resources.
Run the kube control API resources command with the namespace option set.
In the previous lecture, we saw how to authorize a user to namespace resources.
We use roles and role bindings for that.
But how do we authorize users to cluster wide resources like nodes or persistent volumes?
That is where you use cluster roles and cluster role bindings.
Cluster roles are just like roles, except they are for cluster scoped resources.
For example, a cluster admin role can be created to provide a cluster administrator permissions to
view, create, or delete nodes in a cluster.
Similarly, a storage administrator role can be created to authorize a storage admin to create persistent
volumes and claims.
Create a cluster role definition file with the cluster role and specify the roles as we did before.
In this case, the resources are nodes.
Then create the cluster role.
The next step is to link the user to that cluster role.
For this we create another object called cluster role.
Binding.
The role binding object links the user to the role.
We will name it limit cluster admin role binding.
The client is cluster role binding under subjects.
We specify the user details cluster admin user.
In this case, the role ref section is where we provide the details of the cluster role we created.
Create the role binding using the cube control create command.
One thing to note before I let you go, we said that cluster roles and bindings are used for cluster
scope resources, but that is not a hard rule.
You can create a cluster role for namespace resources as well.
When you do that, the user will have access to these resources across all namespaces.
Earlier, when we created a role to authorize a user to access pods, the user had access to the pods
in a particular namespace alone with cluster roles.
When you authorize a user to access the pods, the user gets access to all pods across the cluster.
Kubernetes creates a number of cluster roles by default when the cluster is first set up.
We will explore those in the practice tests that are coming up.
Good luck!

--- Lab - Cluster Roles ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Cluster Roles ---

-: Okay, in this lab we'll go
over cluster roles and cluster role bindings.
So for the first few questions of this lab,
you would have to inspect the existing cluster roles
and cluster role bindings that have already been created.
So let's go over that.
So how many cluster roles do you see defined in the cluster?
So let's do a kubectl get cluster roles.
Okay, so there seems to be a lot.
So you have the cluster admin,
a lot of system cluster roles, and then a few others.
So we're going to count this,
but we're not going to count it manually.
So we're going to do no headers, right,
and then we're going to do a word count,
sorry, word count-l.
And that's 69.
So we're going to select 69.
Now, how many cluster role bindings exist on the system?
So let's do the same thing.
We're going to get cluster role bindings, and that's 54.
Now, what namespace is the cluster admin
cluster role part of?
So, if you do a
kubectl get cluster roles,
you will see that they all are here,
but as we learned, these are not namespaced.
So cluster roles and cluster role bindings
are not namespaced.
So they're not specific to any namespace.
So cluster roles are cluster wide
and not part of any namespace.
So that's the correct answer here.
Now, what user or groups
are the cluster admin role bound to?
So the cluster role binding for the role
is with the same name.
Let's take a look at that.
Okay, let's get
cluster role bindings
and look for cluster admin.
So the cluster admin role is associated
with the cluster admin, cluster role binding.
There are a few others as well,
but we are just going to look at this.
So let's describe the cluster role bindings
or cluster admin.
And we see that it's part of the group system masters.
So it's asking the user and groups.
We can also check these out.
Let's check those out.
As you can see, they're associated with a service account,
and I'm guessing this is to associate it
with a service account.
So we'll just focus on this,
and it's associated with the system masters group.
So of this, it's system masters.
Now, what level of permission
does the cluster admin role want?
So let's take a look at that.
Kubectl describe cluster role and cluster admin.
And we see that it's all star
star.star and star, star, star.
So star means any and all access to all resources.
So that's basically perform any action
on any resource in the cluster.
Now a new user, now Michelle joined the team,
she will be focusing on the nodes in the cluster.
So create the required cluster role
and cluster role binding so she gets access to the node.
So basically we're looking at kubectl get nodes,
but as the user Michelle,
and as you can see, it says, "Nodes forbidden.
User Michelle cannot list resource nodes in the APA group."
So it does not give any kind of specifications
on the cluster role name or role binding,
so basically we should be able to do
we should be able to create any role
and role bindings as we want.
So let's, as long as this command works,
this exercise should be good.
So if there are no specifications given,
we are free to name things, anything as we want.
So let's do a kubectl create cluster role.
Let's look it up.
And we see kubectl create cluster role
then the name followed by work and resource.
And this is basically what we want.
So we're going to name this,
let's say Michelle-role,
and we should have a get list and watch.
And the resource is nodes, okay?
Now we have to create a cluster role binding.
Cluster role binding.
And let's look at the help.
And so a cluster role binding binds a cluster role
to a user, right?
So as simple as that.
We're going to
create a cluster role binding.
We'll call this-
We'll call this Michelle-role-binding.
Then we will have cluster role,
which is Michelle-role.
That's what we created.
And the user is Michelle.
Okay, let's take a look at that cluster role.
So first look at Michelle role,
and then let's look at your role binding,
which is your role binding.
So we have get list and watch access to nodes.
Then we have the Michelle role
associated with Michelle user.
So let's try the command again to test access.
So kubectl get nodes as Michelle.
And that's working.
Okay, so let's check our work.
Okay, so that's successful.
Now, the next question is
Michelle's responsibilities are growing
and now she will be responsible for storage as well,
so create the required cluster role
and role bindings to allow her access to storage.
Get the API groups and resource names
from the command kubectl API resources.
So the kubectl API resources command
is a command that will help you quickly-
let's just maximize this so we can see it better.
Okay, so this command lists all the resources
as well as their short names.
So if you ever want to know what the short names are
for some of these, this is the command
that you should look at.
So deploy has-
deployments have deploy, replicasets has rs.
So that's one thing.
It also is the API version.
So when you're creating an object,
and if you're not sure about the API version,
this is something that you can look at.
And also if they're namedspaced or not.
So as we learned, the persistent volumes and persistent
volume claims, I'm sorry,
the cluster role bindings are not namespaced,
so you should be able to see those here.
So cluster roles and cluster role bindings
are not namespaced.
And this is the kind that you would use
while creating a definition file, right?
So that's, that's pretty neat.
So what we want to do is we want to create back-
so we want to create a cluster role
to allow Michelle access to storage classes.
So I'm going to do a create cluster role.
The name is storage-admin.
So storage-admin, and the resource, there are two resources,
persistent volumes and storage classes.
So first resource is persistent volumes.
Let's get that,
and storage classes,
let's get that.
And the verbs are,
let's do list, create, get, and watch.
So those are the four verbs that I used.
So let's give this a shot.
Okay, so it's created, and let's check it out.
Kubectl describe cluster role storage-admin.
Okay, so that's created the role.
And I want to look at the role in the .yaml format.
And we can see that the cluster role is created,
name is storage-admin.
There are two rules.
So it's created two rules, one for each resource,
so we have persistent volumes,
and then you have storage class.
Okay, so that's good.
Now we have to create the cluster role binding.
So which is this.
So kubectl create cluster role.
So the name is Michelle-storage-admin.
The user is Michelle, and the cluster role
is storage-admin.
Okay, so let's take a look.
Okay, and we can see the cluster role that is
associated to a storage admin, and the user is Michelle.
So let's do kubectl as well and get storage classes.
You see that that's working as expected.
Okay.
Okay, so that's about it.
Well, that's the end of this lab.

--- Service Accounts ---

Let's now look at service accounts and Kubernetes.
So there are two types of accounts in Kubernetes.
A user account and a service account.
As you might already know, the user account is used by humans and the service accounts are used by
machines.
A user account could be for an administrator accessing the cluster to perform administrative tasks,
so a developer accessing the cluster to deploy applications.
A service account could be an account used by an application to interact with the Kubernetes cluster.
For example, a monitoring application like Prometheus uses a service account to poll the Kubernetes
API for performance metrics.
An automated build tool like Jenkins uses service accounts to deploy applications on Kubernetes cluster.
The second example I've built a simple Kubernetes dashboard application named my Kubernetes Dashboard.
It's a simple application built in Python, and all that it does when deployed is retrieve the list
of pods on a Kubernetes cluster by sending a request to the Kubernetes API and display it on a web page.
In order for my application to query the Kubernetes API, it has to be authenticated.
For that, we use a service account.
A service account is an identity of a service.
A service account is associated with what is known as a token.
A token is what is used to authenticate a service account into the Kubernetes API.
So if you have ever authenticated to an API using a curl command or something that you probably know
of, the tokens that are passed through as a bearer token in the header of the call.
This token is what proves the identity of the service account to the API endpoint.
Well, think of it this way if the service account was an ID card that we create for a service, the
barcode that's usually on the ID cards is the token.
It's the barcodes that are scanned by the gates to prove the identity of that user.
And it is this token that we will input in our Kubernetes dashboard later.
Now let's look at how service accounts and tokens work in Kubernetes.
By default, when a Kubernetes cluster is set up, it creates a service account by the name default
in all namespaces.
To list existing service accounts, use the kubectl get service account command.
To see the details of an existing service account, run the kubectl describe service account command.
Whenever a pod is created, the default service account is automatically attached to the pod.
As you can see in the output of the describe pod command.
Here, there's a service account field, and you can see that the service account associated with this
pod is named as default.
So the service account gets mounted as a projected volume within the pod.
So think of a projected volume as a dynamic directory created inside the pod by Kubernetes automatically.
So it is mounted at the location.
VAR run secrets Kubernetes service account.
Now if you list the contents of this directory, you'll see the token available as a file, and if you
look inside the contents of the file, you'll see the actual token itself.
The default service account comes with a lot of limitations, so if you have specific access requirements
we must create a custom service account.
So how do we do that.
To create a service account run the command cube CTL create service account followed by the service
account name which is dashboard Dash S.A. in this case, you can also of course create the service account
the declarative way using a YAML file like this.
So API version is v1, kind is service, account name is dashboard SA.
And to view the service accounts we run the kubectl get service account command.
This will list all the service accounts.
And we can see that our newly created service account is listed here.
And to list the details of a create a service account, we run the kubectl describe command and it lists
its details.
As you can see, when you first create a service account, it creates a blank service account with most
of its properties set to none.
So to associate a newly created service account to a pod, we pass the name of the service account using
the service account name field in the pod spec.
This time when we describe the pod, we see the dashboard service account associated with it.
And if you look inside the mounted directory, you get to see the token file.
Kubernetes automatically creates a short lived token and mounts it inside a projected volume.
The Kubelet also automatically rotates this token, and this token is bound to the life of the pod,
so it is automatically expired when the pod is deleted.
Now, if you don't want a token to be automatically created and mounted inside the pod for the service
account, you may add the auto mount Service account token key to false like this.
You can define this either at the service account level.
That way, no pods that use the service account gets the service account token auto mounted.
Or you can define it at the pod definition level so that irrespective of whether this property is set
at the service account level, it won't be auto mounted for that pod.
Now, for the pods or applications hosted within the Kubernetes cluster.
This setup that we've discussed so far works fine.
So the pod is associated to a service account, and as soon as the pod is associated to a service account,
Kubernetes automatically creates a token with an expiry date and automatically mounts that within the
pod at a particular location, which the application running inside the pod can refer to and read from
to make API calls to Kubernetes.
At times, you might want to create a token that is to be used outside of the cluster, maybe to paste
into the Kubernetes dashboard that we had created, or to put it into a CI CD tool or an external monitoring
tool.
In such cases, you can create a token by running the kubectl create token command.
It creates a token and shares it on screen.
And this token is not stored in any secret.
By default, all tokens are valid for one hour to extend the validity.
Add a duration flag to the command.
Like this.
If you decode this token using the jq and the base64 utility, you'll see an expiry defined as well
as the service account name and other details that are associated with this token.
This token can then be used as an authentication bearer token while making a Rest call to the Kubernetes
API.
For example, in this simple example using Curl, you could provide the bearer token as an authorization
header while making a Rest call to the Kubernetes API.
In case of my custom dashboard application, we can copy and paste the token into the tokens field to
authenticate the dashboard application.
So let's summarize what we have learned so far.
Service accounts are used by other applications or services to interact with Kubernetes.
Tokens are associated to service accounts to prove their identity.
To create a new service account, run the kubectl create service account command followed by the name
of the service account.
To use the service account from an external application, such as a CI, CD tool or monitoring tools.
We first create a token and specify the name of the service account associated with that, and it prints
the token.
On screen, you can then copy the token and paste it or use it in the external application.
Now for internal applications or pods that are within the cluster, every namespace has a default service
account.
The default service account is automatically attached to the pod on creation.
To attach a service account to a pod, we use the service account name field, and when a service account
is attached to a pod, Kubernetes automatically creates a token and mounts as a projected volume, automatically
rotates the token and automatically expires the token when the pod is deleted.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the labs and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Lab: Service Accounts ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution:  Service Accounts ---

Instructor: So the first question
is asking us how many service accounts exist
in the default namespace?
So I'll do a kubectl get and then we'll do service account.
I'm just gonna do sa for short and we can see
in the default namespace,
we've got two total service accounts,
one called default, one called dev.
Now, it's asking us what is the secret token used
by the default service account?
So to get this information, we'll go to kubectl
and we'll do a describe of the default service account.
And we wanna look under tokens.
And right now, we can see it's set to none.
So we'll select none.
We just deployed the dashboard application,
inspect the deployment, what is the image used
by the deployment?
So I'll do a kubectl get deployment,
and then I'll do a kubectl describe deployment
web-dashboard.
And we wanna go under pod template, under containers,
and then for the web-dashboard,
we could see this is the name of the container.
So I will select this one.
And this is just saying wait for the deployment to be ready.
And then you can access the dashboard application
by selecting this button right here.
And we can see the dashboard application.
So we'll hit OK here and we'll go to the next question,
saying what is the state of the dashboard?
Have the pod details loaded successfully?
So we'll go back to this
and we can see that, you know, there's some red text.
Usually that's not good.
So there's an error saying pods is forbidden.
User blah cannot list resources pods in the API group.
All right, so let's go back and we'll say that it failed.
It's asking us what type of account
does the dashboard application use
to query the Kubernetes API?
So if we go back, we can see here in the log message,
it's sayingsystemserviceaccount:defaultdefault
cannot list the resource pods.
So it's using a service account.
More specifically, it's using the default service account.
So which account does the dashboard application use
to query the Kubernetes API?
As I mentioned, it's using the default one.
So now it's saying inspect the dashboard application pod
and identify the service account mounted on it.
So we'll do a kubectl get pod
and I'm gonna do a kubectl describe
and we'll describe that pod and I forgot the word pod.
And we're trying to identify
the service account mounted on it.
So if we go up to the top,
there's gonna be a section called service account.
And we can see here it's set to default.
And the next question is asking at what location
is this service account credentials available
within the pod?
So if we go down here, we wanna go to the mount section
or if we go to the volume, sorry,
we wanna look at the mount section right here.
And so we could see it's mounted at /var/run/secrets.
So this is where the service account credentials
are gonna be mounted.
So we'll select /var/run/secrets.
Next question is asking us
the application needs a service account
with the right permissions to be created
to authenticate to Kubernetes.
The default service account has limited access.
Create a new service account named dashboard-sa.
So to do that, we just need to run one single command
and that's going to be kubectl create serviceaccount.
And then the name of the service account,
which is gonna be dashboard-sa.
So that's going to get created.
We'll then run the validation.
And this is just letting us know
that with the new service account that we created,
it went ahead and added in permissions
for the newly created dashboard-sa account using RBAC.
If you wanna take a look at the configurations,
you can always go to /var/rbac.
And here you could see the role
and role binding configurations.
But we're gonna discuss RBAC
in a separate section in this course.
So we'll hit OK for now.
So it's telling us to get an access token
and enter it in the UI dashboard and see
if that basically fixes the issue.
So to create a token,
we have to run the command kubectl create token
and then we're gonna create a token
for the dashboard-sa service account.
So this is going to be the token and we're gonna copy this.
We're gonna go back to the application
and we're gonna paste it in here.
And now if we do load dashboard, we could see
that we're able to load all of the pods
that's running on our cluster.
So now the next question is telling us, you know,
we shouldn't have to create a token and then paste it
into our application every time we need an application
to interact with the Kubernetes API.
So what we're gonna do is we're going
to edit the deployment configuration
for that specific deployment.
So instead of using the default service account,
it's going to use the dashboard service account
so it already has access to the API.
So here I'm gonna do a kubectl.
And then I'll do get deployment
and I'm gonna grab the web-dashboard
and I'm gonna pipe it to a YAML file
and I'll just call this dashboard.yaml
and then we'll go to the dashboard.yaml file.
And to specify this service account,
we wanna go under the spec for the pod.
So that's gonna be not the first spec
but the second one 'cause this is a deployment.
And under here,
we just specify serviceAccountName
and then the service account we wanna give it.
So this is gonna be dashboard-sa.
We'll save this
and then I'll do a kubectl apply -f dashboard.yaml.
Don't worry about the warning.
That's just because the first deployment
wasn't created using the apply command.
But that's all right.
So we've got kubctl get deployment.
All right, so now we can go ahead
and run the validation and we can see that was successful.
And if we go to the application now
and we hit refresh, I'm just gonna hit Control + R.
We refresh.
There's no token, but it's going to work now
because it's got the service account
and the token mounted automatically onto it.
And so that's going to wrap up this lab.

--- Image Security ---

In this lecture we will talk about securing images.
We will start with the basics of image names, and then work our way towards secure image repositories
and how to configure your pods to use images from secure repositories.
We deployed a number of different kinds of pods hosting different kinds of applications throughout this
course, like web apps and databases and Redis cache, etc..
Let's start with a simple pod definition file, for instance.
Here we have used the nginx image to deploy an nginx container.
Let's take a closer look at this image.
Name.
The name is nginx.
But what is this image and where is this image pulled from?
This name follows Dockers image naming convention nginx.
Here is the image or the repository name.
When you say nginx, it's actually library slash nginx.
The first part stands for the user or the account name.
So if you don't provide a user or account name, it assumes it to be library.
Library is the name of the default account where Docker's official images are stored.
These images promote best practices and are maintained by a dedicated team, who are responsible for
reviewing and publishing these official images.
Now, if you were to create your own account and create your own repositories or images under it, then
you would use a similar pattern.
So instead of library it would be your name or your company's name.
Now where are these images stored and pulled from?
Since we have not specified the location where these images are to be pulled from, it is assumed to
be Dockers default registry.
Docker hub.
The DNS name for which is Docker.io.
The registry is where all the images are stored.
Whenever you create a new image or update an image, you push it to the registry and every time anyone
deploys this application, it is pulled from the registry.
There are many other popular registries as well.
Google's registry is at Gcr.io, where a lot of Kubernetes related images are stored, like the ones
used for performing end to end tests on the cluster.
These are all publicly accessible images that anyone can download and access.
When you have applications built in-house that shouldn't be made available to the public.
Hosting an internal private registry may be a good solution.
Many cloud service providers, such as AWS, Azure, or GCP, provide a private registry by default
on any of these solutions, be it on Docker Hub or Google's Registry or your internal private registry.
You may choose to make a repository private so that it can be accessed using a set of credentials from
Dockers perspective.
To run a container using a private image, you first login to your private registry using a Docker login
command.
Input your credentials.
Once successful, run the application using the image from the private registry.
Going back to our Pod definition file to use an image from our private registry, we replace the image
name with the full path to the one in the private registry.
But how do we implement the authentication?
The login part?
How does Kubernetes get the credentials to access the private registry within Kubernetes?
We know that the images are pulled and run by the Docker runtime on the worker nodes.
How do you pass the credentials to the Docker runtimes on the worker nodes?
For that, we first create a secret object with the credentials in it.
The secret is of type docker registry and we name it.
Docker registry is a built in secret type that was built for storing Docker credentials.
We then specify the registry server name, the username to access the registry, the password, and
the email address of the user.
We then specify the secret inside our Pod definition file under the Image Pull Secrets section.
When the Pod is created, Kubernetes or the Kubelets on the worker node uses the credentials from the
secret to pull images.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the Practice Exercises section and practice working with secure images.

--- Lab - Image Security ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Image Security ---

Narrator: Okay, we will now walk
through the lab on security, image security.
So, the first question is,
"What secret type must we choose for Docker registry?"
So, if you look at the different types of secrets
that we can create. you see
that we have Docker registry, generic NGLs.
So, Docker registry is the one that we're gonna use
for Docker registry.
Now, we have an application running on our cluster.
Let us explore it first.
So, let's do it.
Oh, the deploy.
And we see that we have a web- An application
by the name web.
And what image is the application using?
So, let's take a look at in full set areas.
Okay, now let's take a look at the deployment web,
and we see that it's using the engine X alpine image.
So, let's select that.
Now, we decided to use a modified version
of the application
from an internal private registry.
So, update the image of the deployment to use a new image
from my privateregistry.com/5,000.
So, we have a private registry, and we know
that if you do not specify a registry
before the image name it's going
to the default- It's gonna pull it
from the default location on Docker hub.
So, what we want to do is we want to edit the deployment,
and we want it to pull the image
from the private registry.
So, I'm just going to copy this,
and paste it here, and also add a slash.
So, let's save that.
Okay, so that's done.
Let's check it out.
We see that the image aim has been updated.
And don't worry about the status for now,
because we're gonna fix that in a bit.
So, let's see if-
Let's see if the pods are running.
So, if you look at it, the pod,
this is the new pod
that was created.
So, the rolling update kicked in,
and the deployment created a new pod
with the new image, but it left the existing ones as is
because only if the new pod was successful,
and was in a ready state,
it would kill the old pod,
and then would create the new pod,
because it's following a rolling update strategy, right?
So- but in this case, it's not even-
the new pod is not running.
It's in an image pulled back off state.
So, let's check that out.
So, it says 'fail to pull image,'
a malformed response.
So, that's basically because it doesn't have the permissions
to pull image from that repository.
So, the answer to this question is
No.
Now, create a secret object
with the credentials required to access the registry.
So let's create a secret.
You cuddle, create secret,
and this has to be
Docker registry.
So, let's take a look at the help,
and we see that here's a sample command.
So, let's run this command
along with the rest of it.
Okay, so, let's go and edit this.
So we have-
(pause in speaking)
Okay, so we have the name.
I'm going to use the name as-
Private Rights Spread,
Docker server.
Docker server as this,
and the Docker username, user.
And the password is password.
And the email is this.
Yes, I'm gonna remove the hash.
So, that's been created.
Okay.
Now configure the deployment to use credentials
from the new secret to pull images
from the private registry.
What we have to do is we have to configure the
the deployment,
or the pod to use this image.
So, let's first look at the credential's documentation page,
and let's look at image pool-
or image pool secret.
That's what it's called.
'pull an image from a private registry.'
And we should have-
Yes, so, this is what we need to do.
So, under the spec for the pod,
we must add the image pool secrets.
So, let us copy that,
and let's edit the deployment called web.
That's going to the pod template,
right here,
and we're going to add image pool secrets.
Let's align it,
and let's give the secret name,
which happens to be Private Rights Spread?
I'm going to save that.
Let's check the status of the deployment,
and we see
that there are no changes.
So, it looks like that worked.
It's pretty much check.
Yes, so that's successful.
Now, we're gonna check the status of the pods.
So, as you see, it's terminating the old pods,
and the new pods are created,
and that has the new images.
Okay, so that's the end of that lab.

--- Pre-requisite - Security in Docker ---

In this lecture we will talk about security contexts in Kubernetes.
But before we get into that, it is important to have some knowledge about security in Docker.
If you are familiar with security in Docker, feel free to skip this lecture and head over to the next.
In this lecture, we will look at the various concepts related to security in Docker.
Let us start with a host with Docker installed on it.
This host has a set of its own processes running, such as a number of operating system processes,
the Docker daemon itself, the SSH server, etc. we will now run an Ubuntu Docker container that runs
a process that sleeps for an hour.
We have learned that unlike virtual machines, containers are not completely isolated from their host
containers, and the hosts share the same kernel.
Containers are isolated using namespaces.
In Linux, the host has a namespace and the containers have their own namespace.
All the processes run by the containers are in fact run on the host itself, but in their own namespace.
As far as the Docker container is concerned, it is in its own namespace and it can see its own processes
only.
It cannot see anything outside of it or in any other namespace.
So when you list the processes from within the Docker container, you see the sleep process with a process
ID of one for the Docker host, all processes of its own, as well as those in the child.
Namespaces are visible as just another process in the system.
So when you list the processes on the host, you see a list of processes, including the sleep command,
but with a different process ID.
This is because the processes can have different process IDs in different namespaces.
And that's how Docker isolates containers within a system.
So that's process isolation.
Let us now look at users in context of security.
The Docker host has a set of users A root user as well as a number of Non-root users.
By default, Docker runs processes within containers as the root user.
This can be seen in the output of the commands we ran earlier, both within the container and outside
the container on the host.
The process is run as the root user.
Now, if you do not want the process within the container to run as the root user, you may set the
user using the user option within the docker run command and specify the new user ID.
You will see that the process now runs with the new user ID.
Another way to enforce user security is to have this defined in the Docker image itself at the time
of creation.
For example, we will use the default ubuntu image and set the user id to 1000 using the user instruction.
Then build the custom image.
We can now run this image without specifying the user id, and the process will be run with the user
id 1000.
Let us take a step back.
What happens when you run containers as the root user?
Is the root user within the container the same as the root user on the host?
Can the process inside the container do anything that the root user can do on the system?
If so, isn't that dangerous?
Well, Docker implements a set of security features that limits the abilities of the root user within
the container.
So the root user within the container isn't really like the root user on the host.
Docker uses Linux capabilities to implement this.
As we all know, the root user is the most powerful user on a system.
The root user can literally do anything, and so does a process run by the root user.
It has unrestricted access to the system from modifying files and permissions on files, access control,
creating or killing processes, setting group ID or user ID.
Performing network related operations such as binding to network ports.
Broadcasting on a network.
controlling network ports system related operations like rebooting the host, manipulating system clock,
and many more.
All of these are the different capabilities on a Linux system, and you can see a full list at this
location.
You can now control and limit what capabilities are made available to a user.
By default, Docker runs a container with a limited set of capabilities, and so the processes running
within the container do not have the privileges to say, reboot the host or perform operations that
can disrupt the host or other containers running on the same host.
If you wish to override this behavior and provide additional privileges than what is available, use
the cap add option in the docker run command.
Similarly, you can drop privileges as well using the cap drop option or in case you wish to run the
container with all privileges enabled, use the privileged flag.
Well that's it on Docker Security for now.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Security Contexts ---

As we saw in the previous lecture, when you run a Docker container, you have the option to define
a set of security standards, such as the ID of the user used to run the container, the Linux capabilities
that can be added or removed from the container, etc. these can be configured in Kubernetes as well
as you know already in Kubernetes.
Containers are encapsulated in pods.
You may choose to configure the security settings at a container level or at a pod level.
If you configure it at a pod level, the settings will carry over to all the containers within the pod.
If you configure it at both the pod and the container, the settings on the container will override
the settings on the pod.
Let us start with a pod definition file.
This pod runs an ubuntu image with the sleep command to configure security context on the container.
Add a field called Security Context under the specs section of the pod.
Use the run as user option to set the user ID for the pod.
To set the same configuration on the container level.
Move the whole section under the container specification like this.
To add capabilities.
Use the capabilities option and specify a list of capabilities to add to the pod.
Well, that's all on security contexts in Kubernetes.
Head over to the Coding Exercises section and practice viewing, configuring, and troubleshooting issues
related to security contexts in Kubernetes.
That's it for now and I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Lab - Security Contexts ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Security Contexts ---

Narrator: So for the first question is asking
is what is the user use to execute the sleep process
within the ubuntu-sleeper pod?
So if you ever wanna see, you know,
what user you're logged into as on a Linux machine,
you can run the command, whoamI?
So all we need to do is run that command
inside the container, inside the container.
So we'll do Kubectl get pods.
We can see the Pod Ubuntu-Sleeper,
so I'll do Kubectl exec ubuntu-sleeper
and then we'll do the two dashes,
and now we enter in the command we wanna run.
So we just do whoamI.
And I forgot an E right here.
And we could see that the user that's used to execute
the sleep process is the root user, so we'll select root.
The next question is asking us
to edit the pod Ubuntu-sleeper to run the sleep process
with the user ID of 1010.
So to do this, I'm gonna first get the configuration
of the current pod
because it's saying only make the necessary changes.
So I'll do Kubectl get pod ubuntu-sleeper
and I'll do -o yaml and we'll pipe this out to a file.
And I realized I misspelled this.
And now we'll open up that file.
And so to change the user, we're gonna look for
a property called Security Context.
Okay, so here we'll go under security context
and we just have to add one line in.
And we just have to say runAsuser,
and then we provide the idea of the user,
which would be 1010.
So I will save the configuration.
Then I'm gonna do a Kubectl delete pod,
so I'm gonna delete the current pod.
I'll do a --force just so it deletes it
a little bit quicker
and then now we can apply the configuration
that we just created.
And I'm gonna do a Kubectl get pod just to make sure
that it's up and running and it's running,
so let's go ahead and run the validation,
and we can go to the next question.
The next question is saying a pod definition file
named Multi-pod.yaml is given.
With what user are the processes
in the web container started.
So this pod is created with multiple containers
and security context defined at the pod and container level.
Okay, so let's open up the multi-pod configuration
and we wanna find what is the user
for the process in the web container?
So if we take a look at the configuration, we can see
that the security context was set to run as user 1001
and this is at the pod level.
But within the container level, we could see, we overrid it
for the web container and we've set it to be 1002.
So this is going to be more specific
and it's gonna override the pod context.
So the answer's gonna be 1002.
Next question is asking us with what user are the processes
in the sidecar container started.
So in this case, we could see that there's no
container level security context configuration,
so it's going to default to the pod level security context,
so that's gonna be 1001.
The next question is asking us to update
the ubuntu-sleeper Pod to run as Root user
and with the SYS_TIME capability.
The next question is asking us to update
the ubuntu-sleeper Pod to run as Root user.
We're gonna change it back to the Root user
and add the SYS_TIME capabilities.
So I'm gonna open up the ubuntu-sleeper configuration file
and so first of all,
we're going to remove the securitycontext config
'cause we want to run it as the Root user now.
So I'll just delete those two lines.
Then we're gonna add the SYS_TIME capability.
So we're gonna go under the container
that we're interested in
and I'm just gonna go, it doesn't really matter where,
but I'll just go right here
and we'll add a security context line.
And then under here,
we're gonna pass in a property called add.
Oh, sorry, not add, capabilities.
And then under here, we're gonna add,
and this is going to take a list of different capabilities
and so we're just gonna add the SYS_TIME
and that should be everything we need.
So I'll save the configuration.
We'll then do a Kubectl delete pod.
And then we'll do an apply.
All right, so pod has now been created.
Let's go ahead and validate that
and looks like everything's good to go.
And the final question is asking us to update this pod
to make use of the NET_ADMIN capability.
So we could just go in, this is gonna be pretty simple
and under the add, we just add in the extra capability
that we want.
So I'll say NET_ADMIN, and that's all we have to do.
So we will delete this again.
And then we will apply it.
And we'll run the validation,
and that's going to wrap up this assignment.

--- Network Policy ---

So let us first get our networking and security basics right.
And I'm sorry if this is too basic, but I just wanted to spend a minute on this to make sure we're
all on the same page before we begin.
We will start with a simple example of a traffic flowing through a web app and database server.
So you have a web server serving front end to users and app server serving back end APIs and a database
server.
The user sends in a request to the web server at port 80.
The web server then sends a request to the API server at port 5000.
In the backend, the API server then fetches data from the database server at port 3306, and then sends
the data back to the user.
A very simple setup.
So there are two types of traffic here ingress and egress.
For example, for a web server, the incoming traffic from the users is an ingress traffic and the outgoing
request to the app server is egress traffic and that is denoted by the straight arrow.
When you define ingress and egress.
Remember you're only looking at the direction in which the traffic originated.
The response back to the user, denoted by the dotted lines, do not really matter.
Similarly, in case of the back end API server, it receives ingress traffic from the web server on
port 5000 and has egress traffic to port 3306 to the database server, and from the database servers
perspective, it receives ingress traffic on port 3306 from the API server.
If we were to list the rules required to get this working, we would have an ingress rule that is required
to accept HTTP traffic on port 80 on the web server, and egress rule to allow traffic from the web
server to port 5000 on the API server, and ingress rule to accept traffic on port 5000 on the API server,
and an egress rule to allow traffic to port 3306 on the database server.
And finally, an ingress rule on the database server to accept traffic on port 3306.
So that's the basic of traffic flow and rules.
Let us now look at network security in Kubernetes.
So we have a cluster with a set of nodes hosting a set of pods and services.
Each node has an IP address and so does each pod as well as service.
One of the prerequisites for networking in Kubernetes is whatever solution you implement, the pods
should be able to communicate with each other without having to configure any additional settings like
routes.
For example, in this network solution, all pods are on a virtual private network that spans across
the nodes in the Kubernetes cluster, and they can all by default reach each other using the IPS or
pod names or services Cells configured for that purpose.
Kubernetes is configured by default with an all allow rule that allows traffic from any pod to any other
pod or services within the cluster.
Let us now bring back our earlier discussion and see how it fits into Kubernetes.
For each component in the application, we deploy a pod one for the front end web server, for the API
server, and one for the database.
We create services to enable communication between the pods as well as to the end user, based on what
we discussed in the previous slide.
By default, all the three pods can communicate with each other within the Kubernetes cluster.
What if we do not want the front end web server to be able to communicate with the database server directly?
Say for example, your security teams and audits require you to prevent that from happening.
That is where you would implement a network policy to allow traffic to the DB server only from the API
server and network policy is another object in the Kubernetes namespace, just like pods, replica sets,
or services.
You link a network policy to one or more pods.
You can define rules within the network policy.
In this case, I would say only allow ingress traffic from the API pod on port 3306.
Once this policy is created, it blocks all other traffic to the pod and only allows traffic that matches
the specified rule.
Again, this is only applicable to the pod on which the network policy is applied.
So how do you apply or link a network policy to a pod?
We use the same technique that was used before to link replica sets or services to pods.
Labels and selectors.
We label the pod and use the same labels on the port selector field in the network policy.
And then we build our rule.
Under policy types specify whether the rule is to allow ingress or egress, traffic, or both.
In our case, we only want to allow ingress traffic to the DB pod.
So we add ingress.
Next we specify the ingress rule that allows traffic from the API pod, and you specify the API pod
again using labels and selectors.
And finally the port to allow traffic on which is 3306.
Let us put all that together.
We start with a blank object definition file.
And as usual we have API version kind metadata and spec.
The API version is networking.io v1.
The kind is network policy.
We will name the policy db dash policy.
And then under the spec section we will first move the pod selector to apply this policy to the DB pod.
Then we will move the rule we created in the previous slide under it.
And that's it.
We have our first network policy ready.
Run the cube control.
Create command to create the policy.
Remember that network policies are enforced by the network solution implemented on Kubernetes cluster.
And not all network solutions support network policies.
A few of them that are supported are cube, router, calico, Romana, and WaveNet.
If you used flannel as the networking solution, it does not support network policies as of this recording.
Always refer to the Network Solutions documentation to see support for network policies.
Also remember, even in a cluster configured with a solution that does not support network policies,
you can still create the policies, but they will just not be enforced.
You will not get an error message saying the network solution does not support network policies.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Walk through the documentation and head over to the Coding Challenges to Practice network policies.

--- Developing network policies ---

In this lecture, we will take a look at network policies in more detail.
So here we have the same web API and database pods that we discussed about in the previous lecture.
So first let's be very clear with our requirements.
Our goal is to protect the database pod so that it does not allow access from any other pod except the
API pod, and only on port 3306.
So let's assume that we are not concerned about the web pod or the API pod for those pods.
We are okay for all traffic to go in and out from anywhere.
However, we want to protect the database pod and only allow traffic from the API pod.
So let's get the other things out of our way so we can focus exactly on the required tasks.
So we don't need to worry about the web pod or its port, as we don't want to allow any traffic from
any other sources other than the EPA poured, so let's get rid of that.
We can also forget about the port on the API pod to which the web server connects, as we don't care
about that either.
As we discussed, by default, Kubernetes allows all traffic from all pods to all destinations.
So as the first step, we want to block out everything going in and out of the database pod.
So we create a network policy.
We will call it DB policy.
And the first step is to associate this network policy with the pod that we want to protect.
And we do that using labels and selectors.
So we do that by adding a pod selector field with the match labels option and by specifying the label
on the DB pod, which happens to be set to roll DB.
And that associates the network policy with the database pod and blocks out all traffic.
However, we need the API pod to be able to query the database on port 3006.
So that's what we are going to configure next.
First, we need to figure out what type of policies should be defined on this network policy object
to meet our requirements.
So there are two types of policies that we discussed in the previous lecture.
We have ingress and egress.
So do we need ingress or egress here or both.
So you always look at this from the DB pod's perspective.
From the DB pod's perspective, we want to allow incoming traffic from the API pod.
So that is incoming.
So that is ingress.
The API pod makes database queries and the database pods returns the results.
So what about the results?
Do you need a separate rule for the results to go back to the API pod?
No, because once you allow incoming traffic, the response or reply to that traffic is allowed back
automatically.
We don't need a separate rule for that.
So in this case, all we need is an ingress rule to allow traffic from the API pod to the database pod,
and that would allow the API pod to connect to the database and run queries, and also retrieve the
result of the queries.
So when deciding on what type of rule is to be created, you only need to be concerned about the direction
in which the request originates and which is denoted by the straight line here.
And you don't need to worry about the response, which is denoted by a solid line here.
So a single network policy can have an ingress type of rule, an egress type of rule, or both.
In cases where a pod wants to allow incoming connections as well as wants to make external calls.
So for now, our use case only requires ingress.
Policy types.
Now that we have decided on the type of policy.
The next step is to define the specifics of that policy.
If it's ingress, we create a section called ingress.
Within which we can specify multiple rules.
Each rule has a from and ports fields.
The from field defines the source of traffic that is allowed to pass through to the database port.
And here we would use a port selector and provide the labels of the API pod like this.
The ports field defines what port on the database pod is the traffic allowed to go to?
In this case it's 3306 with the TCP protocol.
And that's it.
This would create a policy that would block all traffic to the DB pod, except for traffic from the
API pod.
Now, what if there are multiple API pods in the cluster with the same labels, but in different namespaces.
So say here we have different namespaces for dev test and prod environments.
And we have the API pod with the same labels in each of these environments.
The current policy would allow any pod in any namespace with matching labels to reach the database pod.
We only want to allow the API pod in the prod namespace to reach the database pod.
So how do we do that?
For this, we add a new selector called as the namespace selector property along with the pod selector
property.
Under this, we use match labels again to provide a label set on the namespace.
And you must remember that you must have this label set on namespace first for this to work.
So that's what the namespace selector does.
It helps in defining from what namespace traffic is allowed to reach the database pod.
Now what if you only have the namespace selector and not the pod selector like this.
In this case, all pods within the specified namespace will be allowed to reach the database pod, such
as the web pod that we had earlier.
But pods from outside this namespace won't be allowed to go through.
Let's look at another use case.
Say we have a backup server somewhere outside of the Kubernetes cluster, and we want to allow the server
to connect to the database pod.
Now, since this backup server is not deployed in our Kubernetes cluster, the pod selector and namespace
selector fields that we use to define traffic from won't work because it's not a pod in the cluster.
However, we know the IP address of the backup server, and that happens to be 192.168.5.1.
We could configure a network policy to allow traffic originating from certain IP addresses.
For this, we add a new type of from definition known as the IP block definition.
IP block allows you to specify a range of IP addresses from which you could allow traffic to hit the
database pod.
So those are three supported selectors under the from section in ingress.
And these are also applicable to the two section in egress.
And we'll see that in a few minutes.
We have pod selector to select pods by labels.
We have namespace selector to select namespaces by labels.
And we have the IP block selector to select IP address ranges.
These can be passed in separately as individual roles or together as part of a single rule.
In this example, under the from section we have two elements.
So these are two rules.
The first rule has the pod selector and the namespace selector together, and the second rule has the
IP block selector.
So this works like an Or operation.
Traffic from sources meeting either of these criteria are allowed to pass through.
However, within the first rule we have two selectors.
Part of it that would mean traffic from sources must meet both of these criteria to pass through.
So they have to be originating from ports with matching labels of API pod.
And those pods must be in the prod namespace so it works like an and operation.
Now what if we were to separate them by adding a dash before the namespace selector like this.
Now they are two separate rules.
So this would mean that traffic matching the first rule is allowed.
That is, from any pod matching the label API pod in the same namespace and traffic matching.
The second rule is allowed, which is from any pod within the prod namespace that is, either from the
pod web and of course, along with the backup server, as we have the IP block specification as well.
So now we have three separate rules, and almost traffic from anywhere is allowed to the DB pod.
So a small change like that can have a big impact.
So it's important to understand how you could put together these rules based on your requirements.
So now let's get rid of all of that and go back to a basic set of rules.
And we'll now look at egress.
So say for example instead of the backup server initiating a backup, say we have an agent on the DB
pod that pushes backup to the backup server.
In that case, the traffic is originating from the database pod to an external backup server.
For this, we need to have egress rule defined.
So we first add egress to the policy types.
And then we add a new egress section to define the specifics of the policy.
So instead of a from we now have two under egress.
So that's the only difference.
Under two we could use any of the selectors such as a pod, a namespace or an IP block selector.
And in this case, since the database server is external, we use IP block selector and provide the
Cidr block for the server.
The port to which the requests are to be sent to is 80.
So we specify 80 as the port.
So this rule allows traffic originating from the database port to an external backup server at the specified
address.
Well that's it for now.
About network policies and rules.
Head over to the lab and practice working with network policies yourself.
I will see you in the next one.

--- Lab - Network Policy ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Network Policies (optional) ---

-: In this video, we'll go over
the practice test on network policies.
So, how many network policies do you see in the environment?
So we've deployed a few web applications,
services, and network policies.
that inspect the environment, so let's take a look.
Seems to be an image, so,
we do not have the alias set, the alias.
Okay, let's first check out the pod.
So we have four pods.
So you have the external, internal
the MySQL, and payroll pod.
So we have the external, we have the internal pod
we have the payroll pod and the DB pod
which is the MySQL pod.
And let's check out the services
you have the DB service, the external service,
internal service and the Kubernetes service.
So these are, sorry, the payroll service.
So these are the the services.
So each one, each of them are on different ports.
So you have 8080 for the payroll service.
The external and internal service are both on 8080.
Then you have the DB service, which is on 3306.
These are the port numbers.
And the question is to identify the network policies
in the environment.
So we could do a get, kubectl get network policies.
So you have the payroll policy.
You could also do, kubectl get net poll.
So that's the short form for network policy.
So we'll stick to this going forward.
So there is one policy and that's called as
"The Payroll Policy".
So there's one policy in total.
So what is the name of the network policy?
That is Payroll Policy.
Okay, so which part is the network policy applied on?
So if you look at this
you have a pod selector and it says, "Name Equals Payroll".
So the, the name of the pod is Payroll.
And so the pod name is Payroll.
So the network policy named "Payroll Policy" is
applied on the pod, which is called a "Payroll".
So that's this pod.
So if you look at the image
we have now identified that this is kind of how it looks.
So you have the external port, internal port, DB port
and then you have the, the payroll port
and then network policies applied on the payroll port.
Now as we learned from the lectures, by default
all ports allow traffic
both ingress and egress on all the ports.
So there are no restrictions
but as soon as you apply a network policy,
it's kind of blocked.
So everything gets blocked
then you have to manually allow stuff.
So let's try and answer this question.
So what type of traffic
is the network policy configured to handle?
So let's look at the network policy in more details.
So let's do a kubectl describe
net poll Payroll Policy.
And we see that, we see the pod selector, which we know
and it's allowing ingress traffic to port 8080
from the pod.
And it says not affecting egress traffic.
So there are no rules for egress traffic.
That means all egress traffic
from this pod to external to outside world is, is allowed.
And the only thing that's allowed is ingress traffic.
So what type of traffic is the network policy
configured to handle, is just ingress.
Okay, now what is the impact
of the rule configured on this network policy?
So looking at this, we know that
it allows ingress traffic to port 8080.
So this is with the
to the port within the, within the pod,
from, we have a pod selector and the name is internal.
So this rule allows ingress traffic to port 8080
on the payroll pod from the internal pod.
So this is basically what is allowed.
So traffic to and from payroll part is blocked,
now not entirely true because we know that there is one,
one route of traffic that is allowed,
traffic from internal to payroll pod is blocked
traffic to and from the internal pod is blocked.
Traffic from internal to payroll pod is allowed.
So traffic from internal to payroll pod is allowed.
So that's the correct answer.
Now what is the impact
of the rule configured on this network policy?
So in other words, external pod can ping payroll pod
so external pod and ping payroll pod, that's not correct.
External pod can't do anything.
The internal pod can ping payroll pod,
the internal pod cannot ping the payroll pod
because we have not,
we have only allowed TCP, the TCP rule.
So that's not gonna be allowed.
External port can access port 8080.
That's not true because we have not configured
anything for the external pod.
The internal pod can access port 8080 on payroll pod.
So that's allowed, so that, that's the correct answer.
Now access the UI of these applications
using the link given about the terminal?
Okay, so if you look at this
you have the external portal and the internal portal.
So let's open those up.
Okay, so this is the internal facing application
the one, the book background
and this is the external facing application.
Okay? So access the UI of these applications using the link
can load this, we have just done that.
Now, perform a connectivity test using the user interface
in these applications to access the payroll service
on, at port 8080.
So we're gonna try and see, we've said this in your policy
but we're just gonna see it for real.
So from the external port and the internal port
we're gonna ping, or we're gonna access,
try and access this payroll pod on port 8080.
So the service to access a payroll port is
a payroll service.
So we're gonna copy this
and from the internal facing application
we're gonna try to do a test.
And that is successful,
from the external facing application
we're gonna do a test and that's timed out.
So this is working as expected.
The answer here is
both internal and external applications can,
can access payroll, do, no, so that's not correct.
Only internal application can access the payroll service.
Okay, now perform a connectivity test using the
user interface on the terminal application to
access the external service at port 80.
So we, we wanna see if, so we've,
we have identified that this is how it is.
Internal port can access a payroll port
and external port cannot access a payroll port.
Now let's see if the internal port can access
the external port.
So external service at port 8080
this is the internal application and try and
access the external application at port 8080.
And that is success.
So that is allowed.
So let's select successful.
Now finally, we have to create a network policy to
allow traffic from the internal application only
to the payroll service and DB service.
See this is the internal application,
we wanna block its access to everything else
except for the payroll service
and the database service, right?
So this is what we want to achieve.
So basically this is what we want to create.
Use the spec que and below.
So we have to create an Azure policy
named "Internal Policy".
And that is this.
And we have to,
for, so after creating the policy
we need to associate it with the internal pod.
So that's the, that's the pod specification.
Like the pod selector should be for the internal pod.
And then the policy is egress.
So we we're gonna configure egress traffic.
So we're gonna block everything except
for the egress traffic to both of these.
And then there should be two rules.
One is to the payroll pod and the other is to the DB pod
which is the MySQL pod as shown here.
So let's try and do that.
So first let's go to the Kubernetes documentation pages
and look for network policies
and let's get a template to start with.
So we're going to get until here.
So let's create a file called "internalpolicy.YMAL".
Okay, so the policy name.
So the policy name has to be "Internal policy".
Then you have the pod selectors.
So we basically wanna select this pod.
So that's going to be,
okay, and let's specify a name, "Internal".
Okay, and let's pick the egress rule.
So we want, we only want egress rule.
So have that here.
So we want to have, let's first define what we want.
So first we need a one rule
for this and another rule for this.
So we basically need two rules.
Let's add that here.
And so the first rule
is so we need to specify the pod selector.
So pod selector and match labels.
So we want to allow traffic to the pod payroll.
So we're gonna give it a name, "Payroll".
And we also wanna specify boards.
So we wanna allow protocol TCP to board.
So to payroll its a 8080, okay.
So that's the first rule.
Same way we're gonna have for the second rule,
we need to specify
to which pod as well as to which port, right?
So let's just check it here.
So it should be
so each one will have a two and, and port, ports.
So it's actually ports.
I'm gonna fix that.
Okay, and within this we're gonna have pod selector
then we're gonna have match labels,
and then we have MySQL.
So that's the second pod.
And then we're gonna have ports.
Then we specify the protocol, which happens to be TCP.
And the port for SQL is 3306, as you can see here.
Okay, so this particular policy,
so we're gonna remove ingress from here.
So what this does is it creates a policy for the internal,
it creates an internal policy
for the internal pod using this label.
So everything has a, has a label with the name on it.
And then we have, we're allowing egress
to the payroll pod on port 8080.
And then on the MySQL pod on port 3306.
Now let's create that policy.
Okay, let's do a describe internal policy
and we'll verify the pod selector
and egress traffic configuration.
So we have 8080 to payroll
and 3306 to MySQL is configured.
You'll have egress policies configured.
Let's check it out.
Okay, so that's, that's about it.
And that's the end of this lab.

--- Kubectx and Kubens - Command Line Utilities ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates)Custorm Resource Definition (CRD) ---

Let's look at custom resource definitions in Kubernetes.
Before we talk about custom resources, let's first talk about resources.
So here's a deployment definition file.
And when we create a deployment Kubernetes creates a deployment and stores its information in the etcd
data store.
Now we can create this deployment and then list the deployments and see the status.
And we can run the delete command to delete the deployment.
Now all of this is simply going to create list and modify the deployment object or resource in the etcd
data store.
But we know that when we create deployments it creates pods equal to the number of replicas defined
in the deployment, in this case three.
So who or what is responsible for that?
And that's the job of a controller in this case the deployment controller.
Now we don't have to create a controller because the deployment controller is built in to the Kubernetes
and is already available.
So the controller is a process that runs in the background, and its job is to continuously monitor
the status of resources that it's supposed to manage, in this case, the deployment that we created.
And when we create, update or delete the deployment, it makes the necessary changes on the cluster
to match what we have done.
In this case, when we create a deployment object, the controller creates a replica set, which in
turn creates as many pods as we have specified in the deployment definition file.
So that's the job of a controller.
And here is how it looks in code.
So the deployment controller is written in go and is part of the Kubernetes source code.
You don't have to understand go or understand this code.
For now I'm just showing this so you can see what a controller actually looks like.
Okay.
Now we've learned about many resources throughout this course, such as replica sets, deployments,
jobs, cronjobs, stateful sets, namespaces, etc. these are just a few of the many resources available
on the cluster, and these have controllers that are responsible for watching the status of these objects
and making the necessary changes on the cluster to maintain the state as expected.
Now let's do something fun.
Let's just like how we created the deployment to deploy multiple pods in a cluster.
We would like to create, say, a flight ticket object to book a flight ticket.
I'm just picking this use case to show that this could be really anything like literally anything.
And later, towards the end of the video or end of this section, we will see some real life use cases.
Let's stick with this for now.
And first we're going to see what we want and later we will see how to achieve it.
So what I want to do is create an object called flight ticket.
We will say the API version is flights.com/v1.
The kind is flight ticket.
We will name it my flight ticket.
The spec section will have some properties required to book the ticket, such as from airport which
we will set to Mumbai, and the two address which we will set to London, and also another property
called number to specify the number of tickets that I want to book.
And that is two.
Now when I create this object I want to have a flight ticket resource created.
And when I list all flight tickets I want all flight tickets to be listed.
And when I delete a flight ticket, I want the flight ticket booking to be deleted.
Now how we're going to do this?
I'll explain in a bit.
For now, we're just discussing the what what what do we want?
So this is going to create or delete the flight ticket object in the etcd data store.
But it's not actually going to book a flight ticket.
Is it?
We want this to actually go out and book a flight ticket for real.
Say, for instance, there is this, uh, API available at, say, book flight com slash API that we
can call to book a flight ticket.
So how do we call this API whenever we create a flight ticket object to book a flight ticket.
So for that we're going to need a controller.
So we will create a flight ticket controller.
And it's written in go.
And we will watch for the creation, update or deletion of the flight ticket resource.
And when we create a resource it will contact the book Flight Ticket API to book a flight ticket.
And when we delete the resource, it would make an API call to delete that booking.
And it might look something like this in code.
So that's how it works at a high level.
The flight ticket object that we created It is a custom resource, and the controller that we wrote
to book the actual flight ticket by calling the API that is called as a custom controller.
We have a custom resource and we have a custom controller.
Now let's see how we are going to achieve this.
If you tried to create a flight ticket resource now on your Kubernetes cluster, you will see that it
fails with the error message that says there is.
There are no matches for the kind flight ticket in version flights.com/v1.
Now this is because you can't simply create any resource that you want without configuring it in the
Kubernetes API, without first telling Kubernetes that it should allow us to create a flight ticket
object.
So that's what we have to do.
First, we have to first define what that resource is that we want to create.
So But for that we need what is known as a custom resource definition or CRD.
We're going to use CRD to tell Kubernetes that we would like to create objects of kind flight ticket
going forward.
So the CRD is a similar object with API version kind metadata and spec.
The API version is API extensions.
Dot case.io/v1.
Kind is custom resource definition.
Metadata has name set to flight tickets, dot flights.com, let's say.
And under the spec section we will specify a scope.
Now scope defines if the object is namespaced or not.
And we know that there are Namespaced and non namespaced scopes in Kubernetes for example, pods, replica
sets, deployments are all scoped, whereas persistent volumes, nodes and namespace itself are non
Unknown non scoped objects.
So here we can define if this object is going to be namespace scoped or not.
We will set it to names namespace for now.
Then we define groups.
Groups is the API group that we provide in the API version.
It will be flights.com.
And then we specify the names of the resource.
We define the kind which is the kind that we use in the flight ticket definition file.
And we will set it to flight ticket.
And we must also specify a singular and plural versions of names.
So the singular name here is just the flight ticket, which is used to display the resource type in
the output of the kubectl commands.
The plural is what is used by the Kubernetes API resource.
And if you run the Kubernetes, the kubectl API resources command.
This is what is going to be shown here in the plural format.
So it's flight tickets there.
And of course you can provide a short version of the name.
Let's say feet.
This way we can just refer to the resource as feet.
When we run the kubectl commands.
Next we have versions.
Each resource can be configured with multiple versions as it passes through the various phases of its
lifecycle.
For example, if it's a new resource type then we're going to introduce it.
Then we start at alpha or beta versions before making its way to version v1.
This is something that we discussed in the API versions lecture earlier in this course.
Let's name it version v1 for now.
And with multiple versions configured for the same resource, we must choose which ones are served through
the API server.
And we also define which is the storage version.
If you have multiple versions, only one version can be marked as the storage version.
We discussed about what are storage versions in the lecture about APIs earlier in this course.
Next we specify a schema.
The schema defines all the parameters that can be specified under the spec section.
When you create the object, it defines what fields are supported and what type of value that fields
supports, etc..
The schema uses OpenAPI v3 schema version.
We specify the different properties using an object type we have from to and number and from and to.
Our string number is an integer.
We can also specify validations like the minimum or maximum value that can be specified under the number.
If the value is entered by the user does not fall within this range, the resource will not be created
and will return an error message.
We can now create the custom resource definition by running the kubectl create command, and once the
custom resource definition is created, you can now create the flight ticket object and then get or
delete it.
So that solves the first part of our problem.
Being able to create any kind of object type that we want on Kubernetes, you can use custom resource
definitions or crds to create any kind of resource you want.
On Kubernetes and specify a schema and add validations.
But it's only going to allow you to create these resources and store them in etcd.
It's not actually going to do anything about these resources because we don't yet have a controller
for it.
And that's what we will look at next.
The second part is building a custom controller that can handle these resources, that can watch when
these resources are created, and perform actions based on the resource specifications you see without
a controller.
The custom resource that we created is just going to sit there.
It's just data stored locally in our data stores and does not actually do anything.
So in the upcoming video, we will see how to get started with creating such a controller.

--- (2025 Updates) Lab - Custom Resource Definition ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates) Custom Controllers ---

In this lecture we will look at developing custom controllers.
So to pick up from where we left off, we have created a custom resource definition.
And we are able to create our flight ticket objects.
And the data about the ticket is stored in etcd.
Now what we need to do is monitor the status of the objects in etcd and perform actions such as making
calls to the flight booking API to book, edit, or cancel flight tickets.
And that's why we need a custom controller.
So a controller is any process or code that runs in a loop and is continuously monitoring the Kubernetes
cluster and listening to events of specific objects being changed, in this case, the flight ticket
object.
And now we could do that in any way we can.
Of course you need to write some code.
So say I know Python well, so I could write a code in Python that would query the Kubernetes API server
for objects in the Kubernetes API.
And then I could watch for changes and make a further call to the API to make changes to the system.
However, developing a controller in Python may be challenging as the calls made to the APIs may become
expensive and we will need to create our own queuing and caching mechanisms.
Developing in go with the Kubernetes Go client provides support for other libraries like shared informers,
that provide caching and queuing mechanisms that can help build controllers easily and in the right
way.
So how do you start building a custom controller?
So there's a GitHub repo named Sample controller.
So first clone this repo and then we modify the controller.
Go with your custom code.
Then we build and run it.
So make sure you have the go programming language installed on your machine.
Install it if it is.
Um, if it isn't already installed.
And then clone the GitHub repo of the sample controller.
We then CD into the sample controller directory, and then we customize the controller dot go with our
custom logic.
And we're not going to get into the details about the code itself at this point.
Um, we would probably go over it at some other time where we will focus on advanced topics that that
would be that would include like building controllers and operators.
For now, let's just assume that we've customized the controller Go code.
And somewhere within the code, we're making a call to the flight booking API and to book flight tickets.
And then once we do that, we then build the code and then we run it.
And when we run it, we specify the kubeconfig file that the controller can use to authenticate to the
Kubernetes API, and then the control process starts locally, and it then watches for the creation
of the flight ticket objects and make the makes the necessary calls.
Once your controller is ready, you can decide on how to distribute it.
Now you don't want to build and run it each time, so you may package the custom controller in a Docker
image and then choose to run it inside your Kubernetes cluster as a pod or a deployment.
That's a high level overview of building a custom controller.
Now, in the exam, I don't expect them to ask a question about building a custom controller as it requires
more coding knowledge.
So I don't anticipate a question on this.
However, there may be questions to build custom resource definitions and work with custom resource
definition files, or to to work with existing controllers that are already there.
So it's good to know.
All right.
So that's that's all for now.
And in the next video we will talk about operators.

--- (2025 Updates) Operator Framework ---

Let's now look at the operator framework.
So we've talked about creating a custom resource definition or CRD and a custom controller that has
the logic to work with that CRD.
And currently these are separate entities.
And we have to manually create the CRD and the resources using the CRD.
And then we deploy the controller as a pod or a deployment.
However, these two entities can be packaged together to be deployed as a single entity using the operator
framework.
So by deploying the flight operator, it internally creates the custom resource definition and the resources,
and also deploys the custom controller as a deployment.
Now the operator framework does much more than just deploying these two components.
But let's look at a real life use case of an operator.
And one of the most popular operator is the etcd operator.
It is used to deploy and manage an etcd cluster within Kubernetes.
So it has an etcd cluster, CRD, and a custom controller that watches for the etcd cluster resource
and deploys etcd within the Kubernetes cluster.
However, it can do much more, such as take a backup of etcd cluster, as well as restore a backup
to the etcd cluster by simply creating a CRD.
There are additional code in the operator named Backup and restore operators that are responsible for
performing these additional tasks.
So Kubernetes operators do what a human operator typically would do to manage a specific application,
such as installing it, maintaining it by taking backups, and restoring backups in case of disasters,
uh, fixing any issues that may come across the application, etc..
All operators are available at the operator hub.
You can find operators for many of the popular applications like etcd, MySQL, Prometheus.
Grafana.
Argo CD.
Istio.
Select any operator to view additional details and the installation instructions are available on clicking
the install button.
Deploying an application is as easy as following the three steps.
That's first, installing the Operator Lifecycle manager and then installing the operator itself.
And that's about it.
That's a high level overview of operators.
Now diving deep into operators require its own mini course.
And we will have that at some point in the future.
For now I do not anticipate any questions on operators itself in the exam.
Um, I think uh, the curriculum mentions mostly about crds.
So this lecture on operators is just an add on, right?
So thank you so much.
And, um, I'll see you in the next one.

--- Storage - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello and welcome to this section
on storage in Kubernetes.
This is Mumshad Mannambeth, and we are going through
the Certified Kubernetes Administrators course.
In this section, we look at
the various storage related concepts,
such as persistent volumes, persistent volume claims,
access modes, and how to configure applications
with persistent storage.
There are so many different storage options out there.
And depending on your environment, the options may vary.
However, looking at all of those options
is out of scope for this course.
In this course, our focus
is on the Kubernetes side of storage.
Once you get that,
you should be able to relate that knowledge
to implement any third party storage solutions out there.
So let's get started.

--- Docker Storage - Introduction ---

Let us now look at storage in Kubernetes to understand storage in container orchestration tools like
Kubernetes.
It is important to first understand how storage works with containers.
Understanding how storage works with Docker first and getting all the basics right will later make it
so much easier to understand how it works in Kubernetes.
When it comes to storage in Docker, there are two concepts you must know about storage drivers and
volume driver plugins.
In the upcoming video, we will discuss about storage drivers.
It's something that we've discussed in the Docker course, so if you have gone through that already,
feel free to skip this video or you may choose to stay and refresh your memory.
Once done, we will talk about volume drivers.

--- Storage in Docker ---

In this lecture we are going to talk about Docker storage drivers and file systems.
We're going to see where and how Docker stores data and how it manages file systems of the containers.
Let us start with how Docker stores data on the local file system.
When you install Docker on a system, it creates this folder structure.
At var lib docker you have multiple folders under it called aufs, containers, image volumes, etc.
this is where Docker stores all its data by default.
When I say data, I mean files related to images and containers running on the Docker host.
For example, all files related to containers are stored under the containers folder, and the files
related to images are stored under the image folder.
Any volumes created by the Docker containers are created under the volumes folder.
Well, don't worry about that for now.
We will come back to that in a bit.
For now, let's just understand where Docker stores its files and in what format.
So how exactly does Docker store the files of an image and a container?
To understand that, we need to understand Dockers layered architecture.
Let's quickly recap something we learned when Docker builds images, it builds these in a layered architecture.
Each line of instruction in the Docker file creates a new layer in the Docker image, with just the
changes from the previous layer.
For example, the first layer is a base ubuntu distribution, followed by the second instruction that
creates a second layer which installs all the apt packages, and then the third instruction creates
a third layer, which with the Python packages, followed by the fourth layer that copies the source
code over, and then finally the fifth layer that updates the entry point of the image.
Since each layer only stores the changes from the previous layer, it is reflected in the size as well.
If you look at the base ubuntu image, it is around 120MB in size.
The APT packages that are installed is around 300 MB and then the remaining layers are small.
To understand the advantages of this layered architecture, let's consider a second application.
This application has a different Docker file, but is very similar to our first application.
As in, it uses the same base image as ubuntu.
Uses the same Python and Flask dependencies, but uses a different source code to create a different
application.
And so a different entry point as well.
When I run the docker build command to build a new image for this application, since the first three
layers of both the applications are the same, Docker is not going to build the first three layers.
Instead, it reuses the same three layers it built for the first application from the cache, and only
creates the last two layers with the new sources and the new entry point.
This way Docker builds images faster and efficiently saves disk space.
This is also applicable if you were to update your application code whenever you update your application
code, such as the app dot Pi.
In this case, Docker simply reuses all the previous layers from cache and rebuilds the application
image by updating the latest source code, thus saving us a lot of time during rebuilds and updates.
Let's rearrange the layers bottom up so we can understand it better.
At the bottom we have the base ubuntu layer, then the packages, then the dependencies, and then the
source code of the application and then the entry point.
All of these layers are created when we run the docker build command to form the final Docker image.
So all of these are the Docker image layers.
Once the build is complete, you cannot modify the contents of these layers.
And so they are read only.
And you can only modify them by initiating a new build.
When you run a container based off of this image using the docker run command, Docker creates a container
based off of these layers and creates a new writable layer on top of the image layer.
The writable layer is used to store data created by the container, such as log files written by the
applications.
Any temporary files generated by the container, or just any file modified by the user on that container.
The life of this layer, though, is only as long as the container is alive.
When the container is destroyed, this layer and all of the changes stored in it are also destroyed.
Remember that the same image layer is shared by all containers created using this image.
If I were to log in to the newly created container and say create a new file called temp dot txt, it
will create that file in the container layer which is read and write.
We just said that the files in the image layer are read only, meaning you cannot edit anything in those
layers.
Let's take an example of our application code.
Since we bake our code into the image, the code is part of the image layer and as such is read only
after running a container.
What if I wish to modify the source code to say, test a change?
Remember, the same image layer may be shared between multiple containers created from this image.
So does it mean that I cannot modify this file inside the container.
No, I can still modify this file, but before I save the modified file, Docker automatically creates
a copy of the file in the read write layer, and I will then be modifying a different version of the
file in the read write layer.
All future modifications will be done on this copy of the file in the read write layer.
This is called copy on write mechanism.
The image layer being read only just means that the files in these layers will not be modified in the
image itself.
So the image will remain the same all the time until you rebuild the image using the docker build command.
What happens when we get rid of the container?
All of the data that was stored in the container layer also gets deleted.
The change we made to the App.py and the new temp file we created will also get removed.
So what if we wish to persist this data.
For example, if we were working with a database and we would like to preserve the data created by the
container, we could add a persistent volume to the container.
To do this, first create a volume using the Docker volume create command.
So when I run the Docker volume create data underscore volume command, it creates a folder called data
underscore volume under the var lib docker volumes directory.
Then when I run the docker container using the docker run command, I could mount this volume inside
the Docker containers rewrite layer using the dash v option like this.
So I would do a docker run dash v, then specify my newly created volume name, followed by a colon
and the location inside my container, which is the default location where MySQL stores data.
And that is var lib MySQL.
And then the image name MySQL.
This will create a new container and mount the data volume we created into var lib MySQL folder inside
the container.
So all data written by the database is in fact stored on the volume created on the docker host.
Even if the container is destroyed, the data is still active.
Now what if you didn't run the Docker volume?
Create command to create the volume before the docker run command.
For example, if I run the docker run command to create a new instance of MySQL container with the volume
data underscore volume two, which I have not created yet, Docker will automatically create a volume
named data, underscore volume two and mount it to the container.
You should be able to see all these volumes if you list the contents of the var lib docker volumes folder.
This is called volume mounting as we are mounting a volume created by Docker under the var lib docker
volumes folder.
But what if we had our data already at another location?
For example, let's say we have some external storage on the docker host at forward slash data, and
we would like to store database data on that volume and not in the default var lib docker volumes folder.
In that case we would run a container using the command docker run dash v, but in this case we will
provide the complete path to the folder we would like to mount that is forward slash data or slash MySQL.
And so it will create a container and mount the folder to the container.
This is called bind mounting.
So there are two types of mounts a volume mounting and a bind mount.
Volume mount mounts a volume from the volumes directory and bind mount mounts a directory from any location
on the docker host.
One final point to note before I let you go using the dash V is an old style.
The new way is to use dash mount option.
The dash dash mount is the preferred way, as it is more verbose, so you have to specify each parameter
in a key equals value format.
For example, the previous command can be written with the dash mount option as this using the type,
source and target options.
The type in this case is bind.
The source is the location on my host, and target is the location on my container.
So who is responsible for doing all of these operations?
Maintaining the layered architecture, creating a writable layer, moving files across layers to enable
copy and write, etc..
It's the storage drivers.
So Docker uses storage drivers to enable layered architecture.
Some of the common storage drivers are UFS btrfs, DFS Device Mapper, Overlay and Overlay.
Two.
The selection of the storage driver depends on the underlying OS being used.
For example, with ubuntu, the default storage driver is UFS, whereas the storage driver is not available
on other operating systems like fedora or CentOS.
In that case, Device Mapper may be a better option.
Docker will choose the best storage driver available automatically based on the operating system.
The different storage drivers also provide different performance and stability characteristics, so
you may want to choose one that fits the needs of your application and your organization.
If you would like to read more on any of these storage drivers, please refer to the links in the attached
documentation.
For now, that is all from the Docker architecture concepts.
See you in the next lecture.

--- Volume Driver Plugins in Docker ---

Okay, so in the previous lecture we discussed about storage drivers.
Storage drivers help manage storage on images and containers.
We also briefly touched upon volumes in the previous lecture.
We learned that if you want to persist storage, you must create volumes.
Remember that volumes are not handled by storage drivers.
Volumes are handled by volume driver plugins.
The default volume driver plugin is local.
The local volume plugin helps create a volume on the Docker host and store its data under the var lib
docker volumes directory.
There are many other volume driver plugins that allow you to create a volume on third party solutions
like Azure File Storage, convoy, DigitalOcean, Block Storage Locker, Google Compute Persistent Disks,
Glusterfs, NetApp X-ray Portworx, and VMware vSphere storage.
These are just a few of the many.
Some of these volume drivers support different storage providers.
For instance, X-ray storage driver can be used to provision storage on AWS, EBS, S3, EMC storage
arrays like Isilon and Scaleio, or Google Persistent Disk or OpenStack cinder.
When you run a Docker container, you can choose to use a specific volume driver, such as the X-ray
EBS, to provision a volume from Amazon EBS.
This will create a container and attach a volume from the AWS cloud.
When the container exits, your data is saved in the cloud.
In the upcoming lectures, we will see more about volumes in Kubernetes.

--- Container Storage Interface ---

Let us now look at the container storage interface.
In the past, Kubernetes used container D alone as the container runtime engine, and all the code to
work with container D was embedded within the Kubernetes source code, with other container runtimes
coming in, such as rocket and Cri-o.
It was important to open up and extend support to work with different container runtimes, and not be
dependent on the Kubernetes source code.
And that's how Container Runtime Interface came to be.
The container runtime interface is a standard that defines how an orchestration solution like Kubernetes
would communicate with container runtimes like Docker.
So in the future, if any new container runtime interface is developed, they can simply follow the
CRI standards, and that new container runtime would work with Kubernetes without really having to work
with Kubernetes team of developers, or touch the Kubernetes source code.
Similarly, as we saw in the networking lectures to extend support for different networking solutions,
the container networking interface was introduced now.
Any new networking vendors could simply develop their plugin based on the CNI standards and make their
solution work with Kubernetes.
And as you can guess, the container storage interface was developed to support multiple storage solutions
with CSI.
You can now write your own drivers for your own storage to work with.
Kubernetes.
Portworx.
Amazon EBS.
Azure disk.
Dell EMC Isilon Powermax.
Unity.
Xtremio NetApp.
Nutanix HPE Hitachi.
Pure Storage.
Everyone's got their own CSI drivers.
Note that CSI is not a Kubernetes specific standard.
It is meant to be a universal standard and if implemented, allows any container orchestration tool
to work with any storage vendor with a supported plugin.
Currently, Kubernetes, Cloud Foundry, and Mesos are on board with CSI.
So here's what the CSI kind of looks like.
It defines a set of rpcs, or remote procedure calls that will be called by the container orchestrator,
and these must be implemented by the storage drivers.
For example, CSI says that when a pod is created and requires a volume, the container orchestrator
in this case Kubernetes should call the create volume RPC and pass a set of details such as the volume
name.
The storage driver should implement this RPC and handle that request, and provision a new volume on
the storage array and return the results of the operation.
Similarly, container orchestrator should call the delete volume RPC when a volume is to be deleted,
and the storage driver should implement the code to decommission the volume from the array when that
call is made.
And the specification details exactly what parameters should be sent by the caller, what should be
received by the solution, and what error codes should be exchanged.
If you're interested, you can view all these details in the CSI specification on GitHub at this URL.
So that's about it for now.
About container storage interface.
I'll see you in the next lecture.

--- Volumes ---

Before we head into persistent volumes, let us start with volumes in Kubernetes.
Let us look at volumes in Docker first.
Docker containers are meant to be transient in nature, which means they are meant to last only for
a short period of time.
They are called upon when required to process data and destroyed once finished.
The same is true for the data within the container.
The data is destroyed along with the container.
To persist data processed by the containers, we attach a volume to the containers.
When they are created.
The data processed by the container is now placed in this volume, thereby retaining it permanently.
Even if the container is deleted, the data generated or processed by it remains.
So how does that work in the Kubernetes world?
Just as in Docker, the pods created in Kubernetes are transient in nature.
When a pod is created to process data and then deleted the data processed by it gets deleted as well.
For this, we attach a volume to the pod.
The data generated by the pod is now stored in the volume, and even after the pod is deleted, the
data remains.
Let's look at a simple implementation of volumes.
We have a single node Kubernetes cluster.
We create a simple pod that generates a random number between 1 and 100, and writes that to a file
at slash opt out.
It then gets deleted along with the random number.
To retain the number generated by the pod, we create a volume, and a volume needs a storage.
When you create a volume, you can choose to configure its storage in different ways.
We will look at the various options in a bit, but for now we will simply configure it to use a directory
on the host.
In this case, I specify a path forward slash data on the host.
This way any files created in the volume would be stored in the directory data on my node.
Once the volume is created to access it from a container, we mount the volume to a directory inside
the container.
We use the volume mounts field in each container to mount the data volume to the directory.
Slash opt within the container.
The random number will now be written to opt mount inside the container, which happens to be on the
data volume, which is in fact the data directory on the host.
When the pod gets deleted, the file with the random number still lives on the host.
Let's take a step back and look at the volume storage options.
We just used the host path option to configure a directory on the host as storage space for the volume.
Now that works fine on a single node.
However, it is not recommended for use in a multi node cluster.
This is because the pods would use the slash data directory on all the nodes and expect all of them
to be the same and have the same data.
Since they are on different servers, they are in fact not the same.
Unless you configure some kind of external replicated cluster storage solution.
Kubernetes supports several types of different storage solutions such as NFS cluster, NFS, Flocker,
Fibre Channel, Cephfs, Scaleio, or public cloud solutions like AWS, EBS, Azure Disk or File or
Google's Persistent Disk.
For example, to configure an AWS Elastic Block Store volume as the storage option for the volume,
we replace Hostpath field of the volume with the AWS Elastic Block Store field, along with the volume,
ID and filesystem type.
The volume storage will now be on AWS EBS.
Well, that's it about volumes in Kubernetes.
We will now head over to discuss persistent volumes.
Next.

--- Persistent Volumes ---

In the last lecture, we learned about volumes.
Now we will discuss persistent volumes in Kubernetes.
When we created volumes in the previous section, we configured volumes within the pod definition file.
So every configuration information required to configure storage for the volume goes within the pod
definition file.
Now when you have a large environment with a lot of users deploying a lot of pods, the users would
have to configure storage every time.
For each pod, whatever storage solution is used, the users who deploys the pods would have to configure
that on all pod definition files in his environment.
Every time a change is to be made, the user would have to make them on all of his pods.
Instead, you would like to manage storage more centrally.
You would like it to be configured in a way that an administrator can create a large pool of storage,
and then have users carve out pieces from it as required.
That is where persistent volumes can help us.
A persistent volume is a cluster wide pool of storage volumes configured by an administrator, to be
used by users deploying applications on the cluster.
The users can now select storage from this pool using persistent volume claims.
Let us now create a persistent volume.
We start with the base template and update the API version.
Set the kind to persistent volume and name it PV Vol one.
Under the specs section, specify the access modes.
Access mode defines how a volume should be mounted on the hosts, whether in a read only mode or read
write mode, etc. the supported values are read only.
Many read write once or read write.
Mini mode.
Next is the capacity.
Specify the amount of storage to be reserved for this persistent volume, which is set to one GB here.
Next comes the volume type.
We will start with the host path option that uses storage from the node's local directory.
Remember, this option is not to be used in a production environment.
To create the volume, run kube control, create command and to list the created volume from the kube
control.
Get persistent volume command.
Replace the host path option with one of the supported storage solutions.
As we saw in the previous lecture, like AWS Elastic Block Store, etc..
Well, that's it on persistent volumes in this lecture.
In the next lecture, we will look at how we use persistent volume claims to claim the volume configured
with persistent volumes.

--- Persistent Volume Claims ---

In the previous lecture, we created a persistent volume.
Now we will try to create a persistent volume claim to make storage available to a pod.
Persistent volumes and persistent volume claims are two separate objects in the Kubernetes namespace.
An administrator creates a set of persistent volumes, and a user creates persistent volume claims to
use the storage.
Once the persistent volume claims are created, Kubernetes binds the persistent volumes to claims based
on the request and properties set on the volume.
Every persistent volume claim is bound to a single persistent volume.
During the binding process, Kubernetes tries to find a persistent volume that has sufficient capacity
as requested by the claim and any other request.
Properties such as access modes, volume modes, storage class, etc. However, if there are multiple
possible matches for a single claim and you would like to specifically use a particular volume, you
could still use labels and selectors to bind to the right volumes.
Finally, note that a smaller claim may get bound to a larger volume if all the other criteria matches
and there are no better options.
There is a 1 to 1 relationship between claims and volumes, so no other claims can utilize the remaining
capacity in the volume.
If there are no volumes available, the persistent volume claim will remain in a pending state until
newer volumes are made available to the cluster.
Once newer volumes are available.
The claim would automatically be bound to the newly available volume.
Let us now create a persistent volume claim.
We start with a blank template.
Set the API version to v1 and kind to persistent volume claim.
We will name it my claim.
Under specification, set the access modes to read.
Write once and set resources to request the storage of 500MB.
Create the claim using cube control.
Create command to view the created claim.
Run the cube control.
Get persistent volume claim command.
We see the claim in a pending state.
When the claim is created, Kubernetes looks at the volume created.
Previously.
The access modes match.
The capacity requested is 500MB, but the volume is configured with one GB of storage.
Since there are no other volumes available, the persistent volume claim is bound to the persistent
volume.
When we run the Get volumes command again, we see the claim is bound to the persistent volume we created.
Perfect.
To delete a PVC we run the kubectl delete persistent volume claim command.
But what happens to the underlying persistent volume when the claim is deleted?
You can choose what is to happen to the volume.
By default, it is set to retain meaning the persistent volume will remain until it is manually deleted
by the administrator.
It is not available for reuse by any other claims.
Or it can be deleted automatically this way, as soon as the claim is deleted, the volume will be deleted
as well, or a third option is to recycle.
In this case, the data in the volume will be scrubbed before making it available to other claims.
However, note that this is an older option and is deprecated now because the Recycle controller originally
did a best effort wipe by launching a tiny recycler pod that mounted the volume and ran a shell command
like rm rf Scrub star to clear files.
It basically tried to do the admins manual cleanup for you with a simple file level delete.
But this isn't sufficient in practice.
It didn't guarantee secure erasure, didn't handle snapshots, or provide provider metadata, and only
worked for certain entry volume plugins on cloud or block backends like EBS, Google Cloud, Azure Disk,
or network storage like NFS or Sis drivers.
Proper cleanup can involve unmount, detach, file system, reformat, snapshot, retain policy handling,
encryption, key rotation, or provider level delete calls.
A plain rm rf leaves a inode metadata and may fail under permissions.
Because of these portability and security gaps, Kubernetes moved to a newer model.
The modern approach is dynamic provisioning with a storage class and CSI drivers, which we will discuss
next.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the labs and practice configuring and troubleshooting persistent volumes and volume claims
in Kubernetes.

--- Using PVCs in Pods ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Persistent Volume Claims ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Persistent Volumes and Persistent Volume Claims ---

-: Okay, so let's go through the lab
on persistent volumes and persistent volume claims.
So we have deployed a pod
inspect the pod and wait for it to start running.
So let's do that.
We have the web app pod and it's in running state.
The application stores logs
at location
log app dot log slash log slash app dot log.
So view the logs.
So for this we can do ...
so in order to view a file
within the pod, we'll do a cubicle exec
and... provide the pod name
and then the command.
So cat log app dot log.
Okay, so we're able to view the logs
and we see that it's it some
of the events that are logged by the application.
Now if the pod was to get deleted
now would you be able to view the logs?
So let's check out where those logs are.
So should I describe pod web app?
And... so there are no other volumes configured.
So you have the Q A P I access
which is the default volume, but there are no other volumes.
So anything that's stored in the log app dot log is stored
within the container within the pod.
So if the pod gets deleted
the logs get deleted as well, right?
So we're able to view the logs, now
we're not going to be able to view the logs
now configure a volume to store these logs
at this path on the host.
So currently all the logs are stored
at slash logs slash app dot log
within the pod or within the container.
Now we would like to store those.
We, we'd like to use a volume to store those logs
at wire log web app.
So that's wire log web app.... on the host.
So currently there's nothing here.
So let's, let's try and set up a volumes.
Okay, so we're going to edit the pod.
So we'll do a cubicle edit pod, web app.
And there are, there's a lot of information.
So here we have the volume amount
which is the default volume amount
for accessing the the Cube API server.
And below we have the volumes
which is again the default volume used for that.
So we're just gonna add our own volume here.
So ... we'll add...
we'll call the name
we'll call the volume log volume
because we're gonna use this to store the logs.
And this is going to be a host path.
And... the path is going to be...
whatever path is given here to wire log app.
Wire log app,
Okay, so we have the volume.
So basically what's happening, what's gonna happen is
when this pod is recreated is going to mount this directory
and we have to specify where it's gonna be mounted to.
It's gonna create a volume out of that directory.
And then we have to specify where it's going to mount it is
we're gonna add a volume mount
and we'll call... the mount path
as it is above.
And that would be a log.
And then we will have a name...
for the volume.
And the name of the volume is log volume.
Okay? So what's gonna happen is when the part is recreated
it's going to create a volume.
Which will store all data in this path on the host,
and it will be called this log volume.
And then we can mount this volume
within any container on this pod.
So here there's only one container.
So under volume mounts we have the mount path
we're gonna specify the name
of the volume and it's gonna mount that here.
So basically this is going to be mount
to this path within the container.
Okay? So...
let's try and save that
it's a pod, it's not gonna allow us to save that.
So we're gonna do a cubicle...
replace force,
Okay.
Support is now recreated.
So now let's check the path at wire log app, okay?
And we can see that the file
the storage logs called app dot log is in this path.
We're gonna do app dot log.
See the logs of the pod are indeed here.
So the, so the logs of the pod are now available on the host
at this particular path that indicates that that's working.
Okay? So the next task is to create a persistent volume
with the given specification.
Let's go to the coordinated documentation pages
and find persistent ... volume
and go to persistent volumes.
And...
so here we have a template for a pod,
persistent volume claim,
Persistent volume
but this doesn't have enough information.
So I'm just gonna keep looking.
Okay, so this is a persistent volume.
So I'm going to ...
get copy this much
and I'm gonna create a file called PV dot... yamo
for persistent volume.
Okay?
Then here we have PPV dash log
that's the persistent volume name.
Then we have storage.
So there's hundred
maybe bytes.
And then we have volume modes.
We don't need volume mode,
we have access mode.
The access mode is read,
write
many
and the persistent volume
reclaim policy going to be...
retained.
Okay? And then...
the type is going to be host path.
So we're gonna host path
and then... specify the path
and that's going to be... slash PV slash log.
So that's the path.
Okay,
so let's create the file.
Okay, so let's create it, let's check it out.
We have the PV law kind.
My capacity rewrite many.
So this indicates rewrite many.
And the reclaim policy is retained.
Let's check our work.
Okay?
Now let us claim some
of that storage for our application.
So create a persistent volume claim
with a given specification.
So let's find a persistent ...
volume claim template.
So we had one... here.
Yeah, so right here you have persistent volume claims
and we'll use this template.
So we don't need the advanced selectors.
Our use case is simple.
So we are just going to copy this much.
So let's do a PVC dot yamo
person volume claim.
The name is going to be claim dash log dash one
and access mode
is going to be
read write
once.
We don't have, we don't need a volume mode
and the storage is gonna be 50 mi.
Okay, now we're gonna do a create
minus f,
ac
let's check out the status.
Okay, so that's created.
So go next.
So what is the state of the precision volume claim?
So if you look at the state, it is in a pending state.
So that's that.
Now what is the state of the persistent volume?
The state of the persistent volume, it is...
available.
So let's check, try it now again.
So it's, it's in an available state.
So why is the claim not bound
to the available persistent volume?
So we have a persistent volume, which is
which has a hundred megabytes of capacity.
And then we have the PVC, which requested about 50
but it's still in a pending state.
So why is that?
So if you look at it
it's not a capacity mismatch because we know
that if when you create a persistent volume claim
if there's a volume that has higher capacity it is gonna
bind that volume to that precision volume claim.
So that's not the case here.
We have the reclaim policy set.
The name of these policy is the PV
and PVC does not really matter.
The only other thing that it looks
at is the access mode, right?
So if you look at the PV
that we created
it had an access mode of rewrite many, and if you look
at the PV PVC, it had rewrite,
it has rewrite once.
So we're going to, now that's the reason.
So access mode mismatch is the reason.
Now the next question is update the access mode
on the claim to bind it to the PV.
So we're going to, lets do an update
on the, on the claim.
So we wanna change it to, so we wanna change the access mode
on the PVC to rewrite many, which is on the, on the PV.
So that's what is requested here.
Okay,
so now
we're going to do a replace
force
dash F ...
PVC.
Okay, now you, you requested for 50 megabytes how
much capacity is now available to the PVC?
So let's look at that.
Let's do cubicle, get PV
Cubicle... get PVC.
Now if you look at the PVC
the capacity that it has is a hundred, a hundred megabytes.
Now update the web app part to use the persistent
volume claim as its storage.
So what we are gonna do now is we're gonna replace host path
with the persistent volume claim to
use the persistent volume claim.
Okay? So but before that we've created the PV to
store the logs
to use the host path at PV slash log.
So right now there is nothing in there.
So let's go ahead and edit the pod web app.
And what we're gonna do is, so this is, okay
the mount path, we're gonna leave it as is.
We're gonna go down
and we're gonna change
this... from host pad...
to persistent.
Let's see what that is.
So if you look here,
should be able to see how
to use a persistent volume in a pod.
So you have
claim as volumes.
So within volumes you have
you use persistent volume claims.
That's what we're looking for,
okay?
And
we have claim name,
so we don't need these lines.
And then the claim name is going to be
claim log one.
So you have versus volume claim, Claim name and ...
log one.
That should be it.
Let's replace the file.
Let's replace the pod forcefully.
Okay, so that is done.
Let's check our work.
All right, so now let's see
if you look at slash PV slash log,
you see the logs there
and you look at log app dot log can see
the logs of the application there.
So now the PV is using a host path
as ... um...
the location for storing data.
But then the PV is then claimed by the PVC
and then the PVC is configured as a volume for the pod.
And then that's how it is mounted to to the pod.
So that's, that's how this is working right now.
Okay, so the next question is what is the reclaim policy set
on the persistent volume PV dash log?
So let's see, you got, will get
PV PV dash log
and we can see that
it is retained.
So retain is the answer.
Now what would happen to the PV if the PVC was destroyed?
So we know that with the reclaim policy set to
retain, the PV is going to be...
retained.
So it's not going to be deleted along with the PVC.
So the PV is deleted as well.
Now the PV is made available again
now it's not made available.
Again, that would be recycling the PV scrub.
Now the PV is not deleted but not available.
So it's not deleted, but it's not available either.
So that's the status.
Now try deleting the PVC and notice what happens.
Let's do that.
Get PVC,
delete PVC
claim log one.
So let's wait for that to be deleted.
Okay, so
it's not going to get deleted
because it's actually going to be stockless.
Let's look at the status in a new terminal.
So let's do a go get PVC
and we see that it's in a terminating state
so it's stuck in a terminating state.
Let's do a describe
and ...
yeah,
so you see it's stuck
in a terminating state for the last 30 seconds or so.
So why is the PVC stuck in a terminating state?
So that's obviously because it is associated
as a volume with a pod.
So it is being used by a pod.
That's the reason it's, it's stuck in a terminating state.
Now let's now delete the web app pod
and let's go ahead and do that.
Do that.
So let's delete pod, web app and let's see what happens.
Okay, so that was deleted
and we see we're now unstuck and the PV was
deleted as well.
Check that out.
Yep. So the pod was deleted and the PV was
PVC was deleted as well.
So what is the state of the PVC now? It is deleted.
And what is state of the PV now let's try that.
We see that it is in a
released state.
Okay, So yeah, that's the end of this lab.

--- Application Configuration ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Additional Topics ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Storage Class ---

In this lecture we will look at storage classes.
In the previous lectures, we discussed about how to create PVS and then create PVCs to claim that storage
and then use the PVCs in the Pod definition files as volumes.
In this case, we create a PV from a Google Cloud Persistent disk.
The problem here is that before this PV is created, you must have created the disk on Google Cloud.
Every time an application requires storage, you have to first manually provision the disk on Google
Cloud and then manually create a persistent volume definition file using the same name as that of the
disk that you created.
That's called static provisioning volumes.
It would have been nice if the volume gets provisioned automatically when the application requires it.
And that's where storage classes come in.
With storage classes, you can define a provisioner, such as Google Storage, that can automatically
provision storage on Google Cloud and attach that to pods when a claim is made.
That's called dynamic provisioning of volumes.
You do that by creating a storage class object with the API version set to storage.
IO v1.
Specify a name and use provisioner as Kubernetes.io slash GCE.
So going back to our original state where we have a pod using a PVC for storage and the PVC is bound
to a PV, we now have a storage class.
So we no longer need the PVC definition because the PV and any associated storage is going to be created
automatically when the storage class is created for the PVC to use the storage class we defined, we
specify the storage class name in the PVC definition.
That's how the PVC knows which storage class to use.
Next time a PVC is created, the storage class associated with it uses the defined provisioner to provision
a new disk with the required size on GCP, and then creates a persistent volume and then binds the PVC
to that volume.
So remember that it still creates a PVC.
It's just that you don't have to manually create PVC anymore.
It's created automatically by the storage class.
We used the GCE provisioner to create a volume on GCP.
There are many other provisioners as well, such as for AWS, EBS, Azure File, Azure Disk, CIFs,
Portworx, Scaleio, and so on.
With each of these provisioners, you can pass in additional parameters such as the type of disk to
provision the replication type, etc. these parameters are very specific to the provisioner that you're
using for Google Persistent Disk.
You can specify the type which could be standard or SSD.
You can specify the replication mode which could be none or regional PD.
So you see you can create different storage classes, each using different types of disks.
For example, a silver storage class with the standard disks, a gold class with SSD drives, and a
platinum class with SSD drives and replication.
And that's why it's called storage class.
You can create different classes of service next time you create a PVC.
You can simply specify the class of storage you need for your volumes.

--- Lab - Storage Class ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Storage Class ---

-: Let us now review the lab on storage class.
So the first question is
how many storage classes exist in the cluster?
Let's do a queue code to get storage class.
So we see one, we can also do a SC
to the storage classes.
So that's the short form.
We see that there's just one storage class.
So let's select one.
How about now?
How many storage classes
exist in the cluster?
We just created a few more.
So let's try it again.
And we see that there are three
setting things up.
So what is the name of the storage class
that does not support dynamic volume provisioning?
So we know that the provisionary is what defines
how the storage class volumes are provisioned.
So the no provisioner is one that does not
support dynamic volume provisioning.
So that's the provisioner.
So that's the storage class that does
not support dynamic volume provisioning.
So that's local storage.
Now what is the volume binding mode
used for the storage class?
The one identified in the previous question.
So for this the volume binding mode
is wait for first consumer.
So this is the answer.
So what is the provisioner used for?
The storage class called WoodworksIO, priority high.
So this is the stories class called
WoodworksIO priority high
and provisioner is port works volume.
Now is there a persistent volume claim
that is consuming the persistent volume
called Local PV?
So is there a persistent volume claim?
So let's look at persistent volumes
and persistent volume claims.
And there are no persistent volume claims at all.
So no is the answer.
So create a persistent volume claim
by the name of local PVC that should bind
to the volume local PV.
So we need to create a PVC with the name local PVC.
And if it is to bind to the PV
they must have capacity, which is, yeah, 500 megabytes.
So that's correct.
And then the access modes should match.
So this is ReadWrite ones
and the storage class should also match;
so that's local storage.
So we're gonna create PVC.YAML
with all that information.
So let's go and find persistent volume.
Let's select persistent volume and let's look at PVC.
And here you have PVC.
So we'll copy until here.
We don't need the the selectors.
So let's paste that here.
So the name is local PVC.
The access mode, as we discuss it,
has to be rewrite once, which is fine.
We don't need to specify the volume mode for now.
And storage is 500 megabytes.
And the storage class name is local storage.
That's what we saw.
Right, so local storage.
So that's it.
Let's create the PVC.
Let's make sure it's created.
Okay.
Now what is the status of the newly created
persistent volume claim?
So it's in a pending state.
Now why is the PVC in a pending state
despite making a valid request
to claim the volume call local PV.
So we made sure that we got everything right
that 500 megabytes of capacity,
rewrite ones access model matching,
the local storage class is also matching.
So then why is it that it was not created?
So let's look at the events.
So let's do a queue code: describe PVC local PVC.
And here we see that the reason is
that it's waiting for first consumer,
waiting for the first consumer
to be created before binding.
So as we discussed, the wait for first consumer
means that it's not going to bind to a PV
if it's not used.
So it's just waiting for someone to use it
for a ideally a volume to use it.
Right, so a pod consuming the volume
is not scheduled person volume
and claim is match search class not found.
So this is the right answer.
So the storage class called local storage makes use
of volume binding mode set to wait for first consumer.
So this will delay the binding and provisioning of
of precision volume until a pod using the person
volume claim is created.
Create a new pod called EngineX
with the image X alpine.
Let's do that.
And the pod should make use of the PVC, local PVC
and mound the volume at the part were,
WWHGML, the local PV should be in a bound state.
So let's create a pod called EngineX
with the image EngineX alpine,
and then the portrait make use of the local PVC.
So for that we're going to have to convert this to ammo.
So we're gonna run it, we're gonna create the ammo file
redirect it to EngineX.
Start the ammo.
Okay, so we have all of this details in there.
Now what we need to do is we need to first
configure the volume and the volume amount, right?
So we need, we need the volume section
and the volume has to come from the local PVC.
So let's look at claims as volumes.
And here you have example of using a claim as volume.
So you have, you already have a volume section
so we just need this.
Okay, make sure to fix the format.
So we have volumes and the name is going to be,
let's name it as local PVC volume.
Okay? Now the claim name has to be local PVC.
Okay? And the next thing is we need the volume mount
which is inside the container.
So the volume is on the spec level at the pod
and the volume mount is inside the container.
So let's do that.
We have the volume mount and the volume mount
says you can see here is at (indistinct),
which is right.
And this, the name of the volume
is the name that we've given here.
It's gonna be this.
So if the question does not ask you
to use a specific name, you can use any name.
Just make sure that this name
and this name matches.
So that's when this volume is going to
get mount to this directory.
Okay, let's save that and let's create a file.
Let's see the status of the part.
Okay, it's created, but it's not in a running stage.
Give it a second.
Yep, it's in the running stage.
Okay, so that's successful.
So let's check the status of the PVC now.
And we now see that it's in a bound state -
so it's in a bound state.
So as soon as a volume use that PVC,
it went into a bound state.
So create a new storage called storage class
called delayed volume SC
that makes use of the below specs provisioner
and volume binding mode.
Okay, so let's do that.
Let's first create a file called
Delete volume SE.ammo.
And we need a template for a storage class.
That search for storage class.
So we're gonna use this.
So let's use the first lines.
Okay, now the name is going to be
delayed volume sc.
The provisioner is going to be:
no provisioner.
And volume Binding Mode..
The volume binding mode is this..
is going to be wait for first consumer.
Let's wait for first consumer.
Yep. So this seems to be it.
So let's create that storage class.
Yes, the storage class is created.
Let's check it out.
Yep. It's created with the No Provisioner
provisioner and the wait for first consumer
while in binding mount.
(indistinct)
Okay, That's successful.
Yep. So that's the end of this lab.

--- Networking - Introduction ---

-: Hello and welcome to this section
on networking in Kubernetes. My name is
Munjab Manamet, and we are going through
the certified Kubernetes Administrators course.
In this section, we focus on the networking concepts.
Some networking basics are required to get
through the section, such as the basics
about setting and checking IP addresses on any given system,
knowledge on gateways and routes, and knowledge
about DNS and configuring DNS servers, et cetera.
While working on this section, as before, we sent
out a poll asking about your knowledge in networking.
Based on your feedback, we've created some
prerequisite lectures around
configuring interfaces and IP addresses,
configuring gateways and routes,
basics of name resolution,
DNS configuration on Linux systems,
as well as how to get started with one of
the DNS solutions core DNS.
These are short lectures that should give you
enough knowledge to go through
the remainder of this section.
It is also important to know a little bit
about a network name spaces and
how Docker uses network name spaces internally.
Again, as always, these are for beginners
and our optional lectures, and
depending on your knowledge, feel free to go
through only those that you think you really need.
I would highly recommend the network name spaces
and Docker networking lectures.
Once we are done with the prerequisite lectures
we start with networking in Kubernetes.
Again, I'm going to rearrange the topics
a little bit to improve the flow.
We start by looking at the cluster networking needs
and then followed by POD networking concepts.
We then look at CNI in Kubernetes
and how CNI can help solve
the POD networking challenges.
This is where we pick up from where we left off
in the prerequisite lectures around network name spaces.
We continue to discuss cluster DNS
and how Kubernetes implements DNS internally.
We then finish with ingress networking.
Again, this is one section that I spent a lot
of time on and I hope you enjoy it.

--- Prerequisite Switching, Routing, Gateways CNI in Kubernetes ---

In this series of lectures, we get our networking basics right.
We look at basic networking concepts like switching, routing, gateways, etc. we then understand DNS
and then we get a basic introduction to core DNS.
We look at how to configure DNS settings on a Linux system.
We then understand basics of network namespaces in Linux.
Okay, I'm not going to bore you with theories on OSI models or network layers.
We're just brushing up enough networking to understand the rest of the section in this course.
Now we don't just go through the concepts, we see how these are configured on our systems, specifically
from a Linux perspective.
So there are going to be lots of commands.
We look at these from a system admins and the application developer's perspective and not necessarily
from a network engineers that way.
Later on, when we discuss these in the context of our course, you know what we are talking about,
where to look for information, where things are configured, how to troubleshoot, etc. and of course,
as always, if these seem to be too basic for you, if you or if you're already good with networking
in Linux, feel free to skip these lectures and go straight to the ones on Kubernetes.
So let's get started.
So what is a network?
We have two computers A and B laptops, desktops VMs on the cloud wherever.
How does system A reach B?
We connect them to a switch, and the switch creates a network containing the two systems to connect
them to a switch.
We need an interface on each host, physical or virtual, depending on the host, to see the interfaces
for the host.
We use the IP link command.
In this case, we look at the interface named eth0 that we will be using to connect to the switch.
Let's assume it's a network with the address 192.168.1.0.
We then assign the systems with IP addresses on the same network.
For this we use the command IP addr.
Once the links are up and the IP addresses are assigned, the computers can now communicate with each
other through the switch.
The switch can only enable communication within a network, which means it can receive packets from
a host on the network and deliver it to other systems within the same network.
Say we have another network containing systems C and D at address 192.168.2.0.
The systems have IP address 192.1682.1 and 2.11 respectively.
How does a system in one network reach a system in the other?
How does system B with the IP 1921681.11 reach system C with the IP 2.1 on the other network?
That's where a router comes in.
A router helps connect two networks together.
It is an intelligent device, so think of it as another server with many network ports.
Since it connects to the two separate networks, it gets two IPS assigned, one on each network.
In the first network, we assign it an IP address 192.1681.1, and in the second we assign it an IP
2.1.
Now we have a router connected to the two networks that can enable communication between them.
When system B tries to send a packet to system C, how does it know where the router is on the network
to send the packet through?
The router is just another device on the network.
There could be many other such devices.
That's where we configure the systems with a gateway or a route.
If the network was a room, the gateway is a door to the outside world, to the other networks, or
to the internet.
The systems need to know where that door is to go through that.
To see the existing routing configuration on a system, run the route command.
It displays the kernel's routing table.
And within that, as you can see, there are no routing configurations as of now.
So in this condition your system B will not be able to reach system C, it can only reach other systems
within the same network in the range 192.168.1.0.
To configure a gateway on system B to reach the systems on network 2.0, run the IP route add command
and specify that you can reach the 182.168.2.0 network through the door or gateway, at 192.168.1.1.
Running the route command again shows that we have a route added to reach the 1921682.0 series network
through the router.
Now remember this has to be configured on all the systems.
For example, if the system C is to send a packet to system B, then you need to add a route on System
C's routing table to access the network at 1.0 through the router configured with the IP address 2.1.
Now suppose these systems need access to the internet.
Say they need access to Google at 172.27.194.0.
Network on the internet.
So you connect the router to the internet, and then add a new route in your routing table to route
all traffic to the network.
172.27.194.
Through your router.
There are so many different sites on different networks on the internet.
Instead of adding a routing table entry for the same router's IP address for each of those networks,
you can simply say for any network that you don't know a route to use this router as the default gateway.
This way, any request to any network outside of your existing network goes to this particular router.
So in a simple setup like this, all you need is a single routing table entry with the default gateway
set to the router's IP address.
Remember, instead of the word default, you could also say 0.0.0.0.
It means any IP destination.
Both of these lines mean the same thing.
A 0.0.0.0 entry in the gateway field indicates that you don't need a gateway.
For example, in this case, for system C to access any devices in the 192.1682.0 network.
It doesn't need a gateway because it is in its own network.
But say you have multiple routers in your network, one for the internet, another for the internal
private network.
Then you will need to have two separate entries for each network, one entry for the internal private
network, and another entry with the default gateway for all other networks, including public networks.
So if you're having issues reaching internet from your systems, this routing table and the default
gateway configuration is a good place to start.
Let us now look at how we can set up a Linux host as a router.
Let's start with a simple setup.
I have three hosts A, B and C, A and B are connected to a network 192, 1681, and B and C to another
1192168.2.
So host B is connected to both the networks using two interfaces, eth0 and eth1.
A has IP 1921681.5, C has 1921682.5, and B has an IP on both the networks 1.6 and 2.6.
How do we get A to talk to C?
Basically, if I try to ping 2.5 from A, it would say network is unreachable.
And by now we know why that is.
Host A has no idea how to reach a network at 192.168.2.
We need to tell host A that the door or gateway to network two is through host B, and we do that by
adding a routing table entry.
We add a route to access network 192.168.2 via the gateway.
192.1681.6.
If the packets were to get through to host C.
Host C will have to send back responses to host A.
When host C tries to reach host A at 192.1681.
Network.
It would face the same issue.
So we need to let host C know that it can reach host A through host B, which is acting as a router.
So we add a similar entry into Host C's routing table.
This time we say to reach network 1921681.0.
Talk to host B at 192.1682.6.
When we try to ping now, we no longer get the network unreachable error message.
That means our routing entries are right, but we still don't get any response back by default in Linux.
Packets are not forwarded from one interface to the next.
For example, packets received on eth0 on host B are not forwarded to elsewhere through each one.
This is this way for security reasons.
For example, if you had eth0 connected to your private network and eth1 to a public network.
We don't want anyone from the public network to easily send messages to the private network, unless
you explicitly allow that.
But in this case, since we know that both are private networks and it is safe to enable communication
between them, we can allow host B to forward packets from one network to the other.
Whether a host can forward packets between interfaces is governed by a setting in this system at file
proc sys net IPv4 IP underscore forward.
By default, the value in this file is set to zero, meaning no forward.
Set this to one and you should see the pins go through.
Now remember simply setting this value does not persist the changes across reboots.
For that, you must modify the same value in the Etsy Sis control dot conf file.
So let's take away some key commands from this lecture.
This will be handy in the upcoming lectures.
IP link is to list and modify interfaces on the host.
IP addr command is to see the IP addresses assigned to those interfaces.
IP addr add command is used to set IP addresses on the interfaces.
Now remember, changes made using these commands are only valid till a restart.
If you want to persist these changes, you must set them in the network interfaces file.
IP root, or simply the root command, is used to view the routing table and IP route.
Add command is used to add entries into the routing table.
And finally, remember the command to check if IP forwarding is enabled on a host.
If you're working with a host configured as a router.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
In the next lecture we will discuss about DNS configurations.

--- Prerequisite DNS ---

In this video we get introduced to DNS in Linux for the absolute beginners.
We will discuss the basic concepts and view some commands that will help us explore DNS configuration
on hosts, specifically Linux hosts.
We have two computers, A and B, both part of the same network, and they've been assigned with IP
addresses 1921681.1 and 1.11.
You're able to ping one computer from the other using the other computer's IP address.
You know that system B has database services on them.
So instead of having to remember the IP address of system B, you decide to give it a name DB.
Going forward, you would like to ping system B using the name db instead of its IP address.
If you try to ping DB now, you would see that host A is unaware of a host named DB.
So how do you fix that?
Basically, you want to tell system A that system B at IP address 1921681.17 11 has a name DB.
We want to tell system A that when I say db, I mean the IP 1921681. 11.
You can do that by adding an entry into the Etsy host file on system A, mention the IP address and
the name you want your host to see.
System B, as we told system A that the IP at 1921681.11 is a host named DB to DB.
Now gets sent to the correct IP and are successful.
Now there is an important point to note here.
We told system A that the IP at 1921681.11 is a host named DB host A takes that for granted.
Whatever we put in the Etsy host file is the source of truth for host A, but that need not be the truth.
Host A does not check to make sure if system B is actual name is db.
For instance, running a hostname command on system B reveals that it is named host two, but host A
doesn't care.
It goes by what's in the host file.
You can even fool system A to believing that system B is Google.
Just add an entry into the host file with an IP mapping to google.com.
Then ping Google and you will get a response from system B.
So we have two names pointing to the same system.
One SDB and another as Google.
And we can use either names to reach system B.
You can have as many names as you want for as many servers as you want in the Etsy host file.
Every time we reference another host by its name from host A through a ping command or SSH command,
or through any of the applications or tools within this system, it looks into its Etsy host file to
find out the IP address of that host.
Translating host name to IP address this way is known as name resolution.
Within a small network of few systems, you can easily get away with the entries in the Etsy Hosts file.
On each system, I specify which are the other systems in the environment, and that's how it was done
in the past.
Until the environment grew and these files got filled with too many entries, and managing these became
too hard.
If one of the server's IP changed, you would need to modify the entries in all of these hosts.
And that's where we decided to move all these entries into a single server who will manage it centrally.
We call that our DNS server, and then we point all hosts to lookup that server.
If they need to resolve a hostname to an IP address instead of its own.
Etsy hosts files.
So how do we do that?
How do we point our host to a DNS server?
Our DNS server has the IP 192.1681. 100.
Every host has a DNS resolution configuration file at Etsy Resolv.conf.
You add an entry into it specifying the address of the DNS server.
We say name server and point it to 192.168.1.10.
And that should be it.
Once this is configured on all of your hosts, every time a host comes up across a hostname that it
does not know about, it looks it up from the DNS server.
If the IP of any of the host was to change, simply update the DNS server and all hosts should resolve
the new IP address going forward.
You no longer need any entries in the etc. host file in any of the hosts, but that does not mean you
can't have entries in host file.
You still can.
For example, say you were to provision a test server for your own needs.
You don't think others would need to resolve the server by its name, so it need not be added to the
DNS server.
In that case, you can add an entry into your host's Etsy host file to resolve this server.
You can now resolve the server, however, no other system will be able to do that.
So a system is able to use hostname to IP mapping from the Etsy host file locally, as well as from
a remote DNS server.
What if you have an entry in both places, one in your Etsy host file and another in DNS?
I have an entry in my local file set to 192.1681.115, and someone added an entry for the same host
to 1921681.116 on the DNS server.
In that case, the host first looks in the local Etsy host file and then looks at the name server.
So if it finds the entry in the local Etsy host file, it uses that.
If not, it looks for that host in the DNS server, but that order can be changed.
The order is defined by an entry in the file Etsy Nsswitch.conf.
The line with the host entry.
As you can see, the order is first files and then followed by DNS files.
Refers to Etsy host file and DNS refers to the DNS server.
So for every host name, the host first looks into the Etsy host file, and if it cannot find it there,
it then looks at the DNS server.
This order can be modified by editing this entry in the file as per this order.
Our host would resolve the test server to 192.1681.115.
What if you try to ping a server that is not in either list?
For example, I try and ping facebook.com.
I don't have facebook.com in my Etsy host file, and I don't have it in my DNS server either.
So in that case it will fail.
You can add another entry into your resolv.conf file to point to a Nameserver that knows Facebook.
For example, 8.8.8.8 is a common, well-known public name server available on the internet, hosted
by Google that knows about all websites on the internet.
You can have multiple name servers like this configured on your host, but then you will have to configure
that on all your hosts in your network.
You already have a name server within your network configured on all the hosts.
So in that case, you can configure the DNS server itself to forward any unknown host names to the public
name server on the internet.
You should now be able to ping external sites such as facebook.com.
Until now, we've been just trying to reach systems with their names like web DB, NFS, etc. but we
just try to ping Facebook at facebook.com.
What is this name with the W-w-w?
And at the end it's called a domain name, and it is how IP's translate to names that we can remember
on the public internet, just like how we did for our hosts.
Now, the reason they are in this format, separated by dots, is to group like things together.
The last portion of the domain name, the dot coms, the dot net, dot edu, dot org, etc. are the
top level domains that represent the intent of the website.com for commercial or general purpose dot
net for network, dot edu for educational organizations And for non-profit organizations.
Let's look at one in particular.
In Google's case, the dot is the root.
That's where everything starts.
Dot com is the top level domain.
Google is the domain name assigned to Google, and w-w-w is a subdomain.
The subdomains help in further grouping things together under Google.
For example, Google's map service is available at maps.google.com, so maps is a subdomain.
Google's storage service is available at drive.google.com.
Mobile apps are available at maps.google.com.
Google's email service are available at mail.google.com.
You can further divide each of these into as many subdomains based on your needs.
So you begin to see a tree structure forming.
When you try to reach any of these domain names, say Maps.google.com.
From within your organization, your request first hits your organization's internal DNS server.
It doesn't know who apps or Google is, so it forwards your request to.
The internet.
On the internet, the IP address of the server serving Maps.google.com may be resolved with the help
of multiple DNS servers.
A DNS server looks at your request and points you to a DNS server.
Serving as a DNS server looks at your request and forwards you to Google, and Google's DNS server provides
you the IP of the server serving the apps applications.
In order to speed up all future results, your organization's DNS server may choose to cache this IP
for a period of time, typically few seconds up to few minutes.
That way, it doesn't have to go through the whole process again each time.
So that was out in the public.
What about your organization?
Your organization can have a similar structure too.
For example, your organization could be called as my company.com and have multiple subdomains for each
purpose.
The W-w-w for external facing website.
Mail my company.com for accessing your organizations mail drive for accessing storage.
Paid or Company.com for accessing the payroll application, HR for accessing HR application, etc..
All of these are configured in your organization's internal DNS server.
The reason we discussed all of this is to understand another entry in the Etsy Resolv.conf file.
Remember, this is the file where we configured the DNS server to be used for our host.
With that, we were able to resolve servers in your organization with just their names like web.
We have now introduced more standard domain names like web dot my Company.com or my Company.com, etc.
now when you ping web, you can no longer get a response.
Of course, this is because we are trying to ping web, but there is no record for by the name web on
my DNS server.
Instead it is web company.com so you have to use web dot company.com.
Now I can understand if someone outside our company wants to access our web server.
He would have to use web company.com.
But within our company, your own company, you want to simply address the web server by its first name,
web.
Just like how you address other members in your family simply by their first names, which is not the
case when someone outside your family addresses them using their full names.
So what do you do to configure web?
To resolve my web?
My company.com.
You want to say when I say web, I mean web dot Company.com.
For that, you make an entry into your host's Etsy resolv.conf file called search and specify the domain
name you want to append.
Next time you try to ping web, you will see it actually tries web dot company.com.
Now your host is intelligent enough to exclude the search domain.
If you specified a domain in your query like this, you may also provide additional search domains like
this.
So it would mean.
When I say web, I mean web dot my Company.com or web product Company.com.
So your host would try searching all of these domain names when you look for a host name.
Finally, a word about a record types.
So how were the records stored in the DNS server?
We know that it stores IP to host names.
That's known as a records.
Storing IPv6 to host names is known as quad records mapping.
One name to another name is called CNAME records.
For example, you may have multiple aliases for the same application, like a food delivery service
may also be reached at eat or hungry.
That's where a CNAME record is used.
Name to name mapping.
There are many more, but that's all we're going to look at for now.
Now, ping may not always be the right tool to test DNS resolution.
There are a few other tools as well, such as Nslookup.
You can use Nslookup to query a hostname from a DNS server.
But remember Nslookup does not consider the entries in the local Etsy host file.
So if you add an entry into the local Etsy host file for your web application, and if you try to do
an nslookup for that web application, it is not going to find it.
The entry for your web application has to be present in your DNS server.
Nslookup only queries the DNS server.
The same goes with dig.
Dig is another useful tool to test DNS name resolution.
It returns more details in a similar form as is stored on the server.
In the upcoming Practice Exercises section, you will practice configuring and troubleshooting DNS in
a lab environment on actual systems through some fun and challenging exercises.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
And in the next lecture, we'll look at how to set up an actual DNS server on a system where we will
use DNS as our DNS solution.
Well, thank you so much for watching, and don't forget to subscribe to my channel for more videos
like this.

--- Prerequisite - CoreDNS ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Prerequisite Network Namespaces ---

1
In this video, we get introduced
2
to network namespaces in Linux.
3
Network namespaces are used by containers like Docker
4
to implement network isolation.
5
We'll start with a simple host.
6
As we know already, containers are separated
7
from the underlying host using namespaces.
8
So what are namespaces?
9
If your host was your house,
10
then namespaces are the rooms within the house
11
that you assign to each of your children.
12
The room helps in providing privacy to each child.
13
Each child can only see what's within his or her room.
14
They cannot see what happens outside their room.
15
As far as they're concerned,
16
they're the only person living in the house.
17
However, as a parent,
18
you have visibility into all the rooms in the house,
19
as well as other areas of the house.
20
If you wish, you can establish connectivity
21
between two rooms in the house.
22
When you create a container, you wanna make sure
23
that it is isolated,
24
that it does not see any other processes
25
on the host or any other containers.
26
So we create a special room for it on our host
27
using a namespace.
28
As far as the container is concerned,
29
it only sees the processes run by it
30
and thinks that it is on its own host.
31
The underlying host, however, has visibility
32
into all of the processes,
33
including those running inside the containers.
34
This can be seen when you list the processes
35
from within the container.
36
You see a single process with a process ID of one.
37
When you list the same processes
38
as a route user from the underlying host,
39
you see all the other processes
40
along with the process running inside the container.
41
This time with a different process ID.
42
It's the same process running with different process IDs
43
inside and outside the container.
44
That's how namespaces work.
45
When it comes to networking, our host has its own interfaces
46
that connect to the local area network.
47
Our host has its own routing and arp tables
48
with information about rest of the network.
49
We want to seal all of those details from the container.
50
When the container is created,
51
we create a network namespace for it.
52
That way, it has no visibility
53
to any network related information on the host.
54
Within its namespace,
55
the container can have its own virtual interfaces,
56
routing, and arp tables.
57
The container has its own interface.
58
To create a new network namespace on a Linux host,
59
run the IP netns add command.
60
In this case, we create two network namespaces
61
to list the network namespace, run the IP netns command.
62
To list the interfaces on my host,
63
I run the IP link command.
64
I see that my host has the loopback interface
65
and the eat zero interface.
66
Now, how do we view the same within the network namespace
67
that we created?
68
How do we run the same command within the red
69
or blue namespace?
70
Prefix the command with the command IP netns exec,
71
followed by the namespace name, which is red.
72
Now, the IP link command will be executed
73
inside the red namespace.
74
Another way to do it is to add the -n option
75
to the original IP link command.
76
Both of these are the same.
77
The second one is similar, but remember,
78
this only works if you intend to run the IP command
79
inside the namespace.
80
As you can see, it only lists the loopback interface.
81
You cannot see the eight zero interface on the host.
82
So with namespaces, we have successfully prevented
83
the container from seeing the host's interface.
84
The same is true with the arp table.
85
If you run the arp command on the host,
86
you see a list of entries.
87
But if you run it inside the container, you see no entries
88
and the same for routing table.
89
Now, as of now, these network namespaces
90
have no network connectivity.
91
They have no interfaces of their own
92
and they cannot see the underlying host network.
93
Let's first look at establishing connectivity
94
between the namespaces themselves.
95
Just like how we would connect
96
two physical machines together using a cable
97
to an ethernet interface on each machine,
98
you can connect two namespaces together
99
using a virtual ethernet pair or a virtual cable.
100
It's often referred to as a pipe,
101
but I like to call it a virtual cable
102
with two interfaces on either ends.
103
To create the cable, run the IP link add command
104
with a type set to veth and specify the two ends,
105
veth-red and veth-blue.
106
The next step is to attach each interface
107
to the appropriate namespace.
108
Use the command IP link set veth-red netns red to do that.
109
Similarly, attach the blue interface to the blue namespace.
110
We can then assign IP addresses to each of these namespaces.
111
We will use the usual IP LEDR command
112
to assign the IP address, but within each namespace.
113
We will assign the red namespace and IP 192.168.15.1.
114
We then assign the blue namespace and IP 192.168.15.2.
115
We then bring up the interface using the IP link
116
set up command for each device
117
within the respective namespaces.
118
The links are up and the namespaces can now
119
reach each other.
120
Try a ping from the red namespace
121
to reach the IP of the blue.
122
If you look at the arp table on the red namespace,
123
you see it's identified its blue neighbor at 192.168.15.2
124
with a MAC address.
125
Similarly, if you list the arp table on the blue namespace,
126
you see it's identified, it's red neighbor.
127
If you compare this with the arp table of the host,
128
you see that the hosts arp table has no idea
129
about this new namespaces we have created
130
and no idea about the interfaces we created in them.
131
Now, that worked when you had just two namespaces.
132
What do you do when you have more of them?
133
How do you enable all of them
134
to communicate with each other?
135
Just like in the physical world,
136
you create a virtual network inside your host,
137
create a network, you need a switch.
138
So to create a virtual network, you need a virtual switch.
139
So you create a virtual switch within our host
140
and connect the namespaces to it.
141
But how do you create a virtual switch within a host?
142
There are multiple solutions available,
143
such as the native solution called as Linux Bridge,
144
and the Open vSwitch, et cetera.
145
In this example, we will use the Linux Bridge option.
146
To create an internal bridge network,
147
we add a new interface to the host
148
using the IP link add command
149
with the type set to bridge.
150
We will name it v-net-0.
151
As far as our host is concerned,
152
it is just another interface,
153
just like the eight zero interface.
154
It appears in the output of the IP link command
155
along with the other interfaces.
156
It's currently down, so you need to turn it up.
157
Use the IP link set dev up command to bring it up.
158
Now, for the namespaces, this interface is like a switch
159
that it can connect to.
160
So think of it as an interface for the host
161
and a switch for the namespaces.
162
So the next step is to connect the namespaces
163
to this new virtual network switch.
164
Earlier, we created the cable or the eth pair
165
with the veth-red interface on one end
166
and blue interface on the other
167
because we wanted to connect the two namespaces directly.
168
Now, we will be connecting all namespaces
169
to the bridge network.
170
So we need new cables for that purpose.
171
This cable doesn't make sense anymore,
172
so we will get rid of it.
173
Use the IP link delete command to delete the cable.
174
When you delete the link with one end,
175
the other end gets deleted automatically
176
since they are a pair.
177
That does now create new cables
178
to connect the namespace to the bridge.
179
Run the IP link add command and create a pair
180
with veth-red on one end like before,
181
but this time, the other end will be named veth-red-br
182
as it connects to the bridge network.
183
This naming convention will help us easily identify
184
the interfaces that associate to the red namespace.
185
Similarly, create a cable to connect the blue namespace
186
to the bridge network.
187
Now that we have the cables ready,
188
it's time to get them connected to the namespaces.
189
To attach one end of the interface to the red namespace,
190
run the IP link set veth-red netns red command.
191
To attach the other end to the bridge network,
192
run the IP link set command on the veth-red-br end
193
and specify the master for it as the v-net-0 network.
194
Follow the same procedure to attach the blue cable
195
to the blue namespace and the bridge network.
196
That has now set IP addresses
197
for these links and turn them up.
198
We'll use the same IP addresses that we used before,
199
192.168.15.1 and 192.168.15.2.
200
And finally, turn the devices up.
201
The containers can now reach each other over the network.
202
So we follow the same procedure
203
to connect the remaining namespaces to the same network.
204
We now have all four namespaces connected
205
to our internal bridge network,
206
and they can all communicate with each other.
207
They have all IP addresses 192.168.15.1,
208
two, three, and four.
209
And remember, we assigned our host the IP 192.168.1.2.
210
From my host, what if I try to reach
211
one of these interfaces in these namespaces?
212
Will it work? No.
213
My host is on one network and the namespaces are on another.
214
But what if I really want to establish connectivity
215
between my host and this namespaces?
216
Remember, we said that the bridge switch is actually
217
a network interface for the host.
218
So we do have an interface on the 192.168.15 network
219
on our host.
220
Since this just another interface,
221
all we need to do is assign an IP address to it
222
so we can reach the namespace through it.
223
Run the IP addr command to set the IP 192.168.15.5
224
to this interface.
225
We can now ping the red namespace from our local host.
226
Now, remember, this entire network is still private
227
and restricted within the host.
228
From within the namespaces,
229
you can't reach the outside world,
230
nor can anyone from the outside world reach the services
231
or applications hosted inside.
232
The only door to the outside world
233
is the ethernet port on the host.
234
So how do we configure this bridge to reach the LAN network
235
through the ethernet port?
236
Say there is another host attached to our LAN network
237
with the address 192.168.1.3.
238
How can I reach this host from within my namespaces?
239
What happens if I try to ping this host
240
from my blue namespace?
241
The blue namespace sees that I'm trying to reach a network
242
at 192.168.1, which is different from my current network
243
of 192.168.15.
244
So it looks at its routing table to see
245
how to find that network.
246
The routing table has no information about other network.
247
So it comes back saying that the network is unreachable.
248
So we need to add an entry into the routing table
249
to provide a gateway or door to the outside world.
250
So how do we find that gateway?
251
A door or a gateway, as we discussed before,
252
is a system on the local network
253
that connects to the other network.
254
So what is a system that has one interface on the network
255
local to the blue namespace,
256
which is the 192.168.15 network,
257
and is also connected to the outside LAN network?
258
Here's a logical view.
259
It's the local host that have all these namespaces on
260
so you can ping the namespaces.
261
Remember, our local host has an interface to attach
262
to the private network so you can ping the namespaces.
263
So our local host is the gateway
264
that connects the two networks together.
265
We can now add a route entry in the blue namespace to say,
266
route all traffic to the 192.168.1 network
267
through the gateway at 192.168.15.5.
268
Now, remember, our host has two IP addresses,
269
one on the bridge network at 192.168.15.5,
270
and another on the external network at 192.168.1.2.
271
Can you use any in the route?
272
No, because the blue namespace can only reach the gateway
273
in its local network at 192.168.15.5.
274
The default gateway should be reachable from your namespace
275
when you add it to your route.
276
When you try to ping now,
277
you no longer get the network unreachable message,
278
but you still don't get any response back from the ping.
279
What might be the problem?
280
We talked about a similar situation
281
in one of our earlier lectures, where from our home network,
282
we try to reach the external internet through our router.
283
Our home network has our internal private IP addresses
284
that the destination network don't know about,
285
so they cannot reach back.
286
For this, we need NAT enable on our host
287
acting as the gateway here so that it can send the messages
288
to the LAN in its own name with its own address.
289
So how do we add NAT functionality to our host?
290
We should do that using iptables.
291
Add a new rule in the NAT iptable in the post routing chain
292
to masquerade or replace the from address on all packets
293
coming from the source network 192.168.15.0
294
with its own IP address.
295
That way, anyone receiving these packets outside the network
296
will think that they're coming from the host
297
and not from within the namespace.
298
When we try to ping now,
299
we see that we are able to reach the outside world.
300
Finally, say the LAN is connected to the internet.
301
We want the namespaces to reach the internet.
302
So we try to ping a server on the internet at 8.8.8.8
303
from the blue namespace.
304
We receive a familiar message
305
that the network is unreachable.
306
By now we know why that is.
307
We look at the routing table
308
and see that we have routes to the network 192.168.1,
309
but not to anything else.
310
Since these namespaces can reach any network
311
our host can reach, we can simply say that
312
to reach any external network, talk to our host.
313
So we add a default gateway specifying our host,
314
we should now be able to reach the outside world
315
from within these namespaces.
316
Now, what about connectivity from the outside world
317
to inside the namespaces?
318
Say for example, the blue namespace hosts
319
a web application on port 80.
320
As of now, the namespaces are on an internal private network
321
and no one from the outside world knows about them.
322
We can only access these from the host itself.
323
If you try to ping the private IP of the namespace
324
from another host on another network,
325
you will see that it's not reachable.
326
Obviously, because that host doesn't know about
327
this private network.
328
In order to make that communication possible,
329
you have two options.
330
The two options that we saw previously on that.
331
The first is to give away the identity
332
of the private network to the second host.
333
So we basically add an IP route entry to the second host,
334
telling the host that the network 192.168.15
335
can be reached through the host at 192.168.1.2,
336
but we don't want to do that.
337
The other option is to add a port forwarding rule
338
using iptables to say any traffic coming to port 80
339
on the local host is to be forwarded to port 80
340
on the IP assigned to the blue namespace.
341
Well, that's it for this video. Thank you for watching.

--- FAQ ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Prerequisite Docker Networking ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we look at networking in Docker.
We will start with a basic networking options in Docker, and then try and relate it to the concepts
around networking namespaces.
Let's start with a single Docker host a server with Docker installed on it.
It has an Ethernet interface at eth0 that connects to the local network with the IP address.
192.168.1.1.
When you run a container, you have different networking options to choose from.
First, let's see the Non-network with the Non-network.
The Docker container is not attached to any network.
The container cannot reach the outside world, and no one from the outside world can reach the container.
If you run multiple containers, they are all created without being part of any network and cannot talk
to each other or to the outside world.
Next is the host network.
With the host network, the container is attached to the host's network.
There is no network isolation between the host and the container.
If you deploy a web application listening on port 80.
In the container.
Then the web application is available on port 80 on the host without having to do any additional port
mapping.
If you try to run another instance of the same container that listens on the same port, it won't work
as they share the host networking and two processes cannot listen on the same port at the same time.
The third networking option is the bridge.
In this case, an internal private network is created which the Docker host and containers attached
to the network has an address 172.17.0.0 by default, and each device connecting to this network get
their own internal private network address on this network.
This is the network that we are most interested in.
So we will take a deeper look at how exactly Docker creates and manages this network.
When Docker is installed on the host, it creates an internal private network called bridge by default.
You can see this when you run the Docker network ls command.
Now Docker calls the network by the name, but on the host, the network is created by the docker zero.
You can see this in the output of the IP link command.
Docker internally uses a technique similar to what we saw in the video on namespaces, by running the
IP link ad command with the type set to bridge.
So remember the name bridge in Docker network output refers to the name docker zero on the host to run
the same thing.
Also note that the interface or network is currently down.
Now remember we said that the bridge network is like an interface to the host, but a switch to the
namespaces or containers within the host.
So the interface docker zero on the host is assigned an IP 172.17.0.1.
You can see this in the output of the IP addr command.
Whenever a container is created, Docker creates a network namespace for it, just like how we created
network namespaces in the previous video.
Run the IP net command to list the namespace.
Note that there is a minor hack to be done to get the IP Netns command.
To list the namespaces created by Docker.
Check out the resources section of this lecture for information on that.
The namespace has the name starting B3165.
You can see the namespace associated with each container in the output of the docker inspect command.
So how does Docker attach the container or its network namespace to the bridge network?
For the remainder of this lecture, a container and network namespace means the same thing.
When a container, I'm referring to the network namespace created by Docker for that container.
So how does Docker attach the container to the bridge?
As we did before, it creates a cable a virtual cable with two interfaces on each end.
Let's find out what Docker has created here.
If you run the IP link command on the Docker host, you see one end of the interface which is attached
to the local bridge Docker zero.
If we run the same command again, this time with the dash n option with the namespace, then it lists
the other end of the interface within the container namespace.
The interface also gets an IP assigned within the network.
You can view this by running the IP addr command, but within the container's namespace the container
gets assigned 172.17.0.3.
You can also view this by attaching to the container and looking at the IP address assigned to it that
way.
The same procedure is followed every time a new container is created.
Docker creates a namespace, creates a pair of interfaces, attaches one end to the container, and
another end to the bridge network.
The interface pairs can be identified using their numbers.
Odd and even form a pair nine and ten are one, pair seven and eight are another.
11 and 12 are one pair.
The containers are all part of the network.
Now they can all communicate with each other.
Let us look at port mapping now.
the container we created is nginx.
So it's a web application serving web page on port 80.
Since our container is within a private network inside the host, only other containers in the same
network are.
The host itself can access this web page.
If you try to access the web page using curl with the IP of the container from within Docker host on
port 80, you will see the web page.
If you try to do the same thing outside the host, you cannot view the web page to allow external users
to access the applications hosted on containers.
Docker provides a port publishing or port mapping option when you run containers.
Tell Docker to map port 8080 on the Docker host to port 80 on the container.
With that done, you could access the web application using the IP of the Docker host and port 8080.
Any traffic to port 8080 on the docker host will be forwarded to port 80 on the container.
Now all of your external users and other applications or service can use this URL to access the application
deployed on the host.
But how does Docker do that?
How does it forward traffic from one port to another?
Well, what would you do?
Let's forget about Docker and everything else for a second.
The requirement is to forward traffic coming in on one port to another port on the server.
We talked about it in one of our prerequisite lectures.
We create a Nat rule for that using iptables.
We create an entry into the Nat table to append the rules to the prerouting chain, to change the destination
port from 1880 to 80.
Docker does it the same way.
Docker adds the rule to the Docker chain and sets destination to include the container's IP as well.
You can see the rule Docker creates when you list the rules in iptables.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
In the next lecture we will talk about CNI and what a container networking interface is.

--- Prerequisite CNI ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we look at container networking interface.
So far we saw how network namespaces work as in how to create an isolated network namespace environment.
Within our system.
We saw how to connect multiple such namespaces through a bridged network, how to create virtual cables
or pipes with virtual interfaces on either end, and then how to attach each end to a namespace and
the bridge.
We don't know how to assign IP and bring them on, and finally enable Nat or IP masquerade for external
communication, etc. we then saw how Docker did it for its bridge networking option.
It was pretty much the same way, except that it uses different naming patterns.
Well, other container solutions solve their networking challenges in kind of the same way, like Rocket
or Mesos, containerization, or any other solutions that work with containers and requires to configure
networking between them like Kubernetes.
If we are all trying to solve the same networking challenges by researching and finally identifying
a similar approach with our own little minor differences.
Why code and develop the same solution multiple times?
Why not just create a single standard approach that everyone can follow?
So we take all of these ideas from the different solutions, and move all the networking portions of
it into a single program or code.
And since this is for the bridge network, we call it bridge.
So we created a program or script that performs all the required tasks to get the container attached
to a bridge network.
For example, you could run this program using its name bridge and specify that you want to add this
container to a particular network namespace.
The bridge program takes care of the rest so that the container runtime environments are relieved of
those tasks.
For example, when Rocket or Kubernetes creates a new container, they call the bridge program and pass
the container ID and namespace to get networking configured for that container.
So what if you wanted to create such a program for yourself, maybe for a new networking type?
If you were doing so, what arguments and commands should it support?
How do you make sure the program you create will work correctly with these runtimes?
How do you know that container runtimes like Kubernetes or Rocket will invoke your program correctly?
That's where we need some standards to find a standard that defines how a program should look, how
container runtimes will invoke them so that everyone can adhere to a single set of standards and develop
solutions that work across runtimes.
Basuo container network interface comes in.
The CNI is a set of standards that define how programs should be developed to solve networking challenges
in a container.
Runtime environments.
The programs are referred to as plugins, in this case bridge Brits program that we have been referring
to is a plugin for CNI.
CNI defines how the plugin should be developed and how container runtimes should invoke them.
CNI defines a set of responsibilities for container runtimes and plugins for container runtimes.
CNI specifies that it is responsible for creating a network namespace for each container.
It should then identify the networks the container must attach to.
Container runtime must then invoke the plugin when a container is created using the add command, and
also invoke the plugin when the container is deleted using the del command.
It also specifies how to configure a network plugin on the container runtime environment using a JSON
file.
On the plugin side, it defines that the plugin should support add del and check command line arguments,
and that these should accept parameters like container and network namespace.
The plugin should take care of assigning IP addresses to the pods and any associated routes required
for the containers to reach other containers in the network at the end, the results should be specified
in a particular format, as long as the container runtimes and plugins adhere to these standards, they
can all live together in harmony.
Any runtime should be able to work with any plugin.
CNI comes with a set of supported plugins already, such as bridge, Vlan, IP, Vlan, Macvlan one
for windows, as well as iPam plugins like host, local and DHCP.
There are other plugins available from third party organizations as well.
Some examples are weave, flannel, cilium, VMware, NSX, calico, Infoblox, etc. all of these container
runtimes implement CNI standards, so any of them can work with any of these plugins.
But there is one that is not in this list.
Docker.
Her Docker does not implement.
Docker has its own set of standards known as CNM, which stands for Container Network Model, which
is another standard that aims at solving container networking challenges similar to CNI, but with some
differences due to the differences.
These plugins don't natively integrate with Docker, meaning you can't run a Docker container and specify
the network plugin to use is CNI and specify one of these plugins.
But that doesn't mean you can't use Docker with CNI at all, you just have to work around it yourself.
For example, create a Docker container without any network configuration and then manually invoke the
bridge plugin yourself.
That is pretty much how Kubernetes does it.
When Kubernetes creates Docker containers, it creates them on the network.
It then invokes the configured CNI plugins who take care of the rest of the configuration.
We talk about CNI in Kubernetes in the upcoming lectures.

--- Cluster Networking ---

In this lecture, we look at the networking configurations required on the master and worker nodes in
a Kubernetes cluster.
The Kubernetes cluster consists of master and worker nodes.
Each node must have at least one interface connected to a network.
Each interface must have an address configured.
The hosts must have a unique hostname set as well as a unique Mac address.
You should note this especially if you created the VMs by cloning from existing ones.
There are some ports that needs to be opened as well.
These are used by the various components in the control plane.
The master should accept connections on 6443 for the API server.
The worker nodes.
Kube control tool.
External users and all other control plane components.
Access the kube API server via this port.
The Kubelets on the master and worker nodes.
Listen on port 10250.
Yes.
In case we didn't discuss this, the Kubelets can be present on the master node as well.
The kube scheduler requires port 10259 to be open.
The kube controller manager requires port 10257 to be open.
The worker nodes expose services for external access on port 30,000 to 32,767, so this should be open
as well.
Finally, the etcd server listens on port 2379 if you have multiple master nodes.
All of these ports need to be open on those as well.
And you also need an additional port 2380 open so the etcd clients can communicate with each other.
The list of ports to be opened are also available in the Kubernetes documentation page.
So consider this when you set up networking for your nodes and your firewalls or iptables rules or network
security group in a cloud environment such as GCP or Azure or AWS.
And if things are not working, this is one place to look for while you're investigating.
Head over to the practice session and explore the networking setup in the existing environment.
Keep these commands handy while you look for information.
We will start with simple exercises where you will explore an existing Kubernetes cluster and view information
about the interfaces, IPS, hostnames, ports, etc. this will help you familiarize with the environment
and look for information in the future sections.
Going forward, we will get into more challenging exercises.
For now, let's start slow.

--- Important Note about CNI and CKA Exam ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - Explore Environment ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Explore Environment (optional) ---

Instructor: For the first question,
it's asking us how many nodes are part of this cluster.
So we can do this by running a kubectl get nodes
and we can see there's two nodes, control-plane and node01.
So I'll select two.
What is the internal IP address
of the controlplane node in the cluster?
So we're gonna run the same command, kubectl get nodes,
but this time passing a -o wide.
That's gonna give us a little bit more information.
And what we specifically want is the INTERNAL-IP column.
So this is gonna give us the internal IP address,
which is what it's asking for.
So for under controlplane, we can see it's 192.5.114.3.
So I'll select that.
What is the network interface
configured for cluster connectivity on control-plane node?
So here, I'm going to run the command.
So there's two commands,
you can either do ip address, or you can do ip link.
It doesn't matter which one you use,
each one will give you the same information.
So we do ip address and what you want to do
is find the interface that has this specific IP.
So we will go down and we'll see one 114.3.
And if you go through all the interfaces,
when we get down to eth0,
we could see that it's got the one 114.3.
So this IP address is bound to this interface.
So this is what's gonna be used for cluster connectivity.
So I'll select eth0.
Now, it's asking for what is the MAC address
of the interface on the control-plane?
So it's asking us what's the MAC address
of the interface of eth0.
So we're already here, we've already got the output open.
So we can just run this right here.
So this is the answer, 72:03, it's gonna be this guy.
But if you wanted to, you could also run ip address show
and then the name of the interface.
So if you just wanted to see
the information for this interface
without it cluttering your screen, you could do show eth0.
And that's gonna give us all of the same information,
but just for this interface.
Now it's asking us,
what is the IP address assigned to node01?
So we'll do kubectl get nodes -o wide.
And now, we grab the INTERNAL-IP of node01,
which is the one 114.6.
So I'll grab, that's this guy right here.
And so I'll grab one 114.6.
What is the MAC address assigned to node01?
So we're gonna do the same steps for node01.
I'm gonna SSH to that one first.
So now we're on node01 and I can just do an ip address.
And we gotta look for the one 114.6.
So if I scroll down, we can see one 114.6,
that's also eth0 on node01.
And then, if you take a look
at the MAC address for that interface,
we can see it's 72:06.
So I'll select 72:06.
The next question is asking us,
we use the Containerd as our container runtime.
What is the interface/bridge created by on that host?
So this is asking specifically, you know,
back on the controlplane, we'll do ip address, or ip link.
And we wanna look for the bridge/interface
that the Containerd is gonna be using,
so that's going to be the cni0.
Now, I know that's what's going to be the bridge/interface,
but if you didn't know
that that was a bridge/interface on a Linux host,
what you can do is you can run this command,
ip address show.
So this is gonna show you, you know,
based off a certain criteria
what interfaces you're interested in
and you type in type and bridge.
So this is gonna show you
all of the bridge interfaces on this machine.
And so here,
you can see the only bridge interface is cni0,
so we'll select cni0.
What is the state of interface cni0?
So we've already got this information up.
If you just scroll to the right,
you should see a state of UP, right here.
The next question is asking us,
if you were to ping Google from the control-plane node,
what route does it take?
Basically, it's asking us what is the IP address
of the default gateway?
So I'm gonna do a ip route.
This is gonna list all of the routes on this host
and we can see that the default route
is via 172.25.0.1 on eth1 interface.
So that's the IP address of the default gateway, 172.25.0.1.
So basically, anytime you send a request
to anybody that's outside of any of the following networks,
which you already have routes for,
it's, by default, going to go to this IP address right here.
The next question is asking us, what is the port
the kube-scheduler is listening on in the controlplane.
So to figure out what port it's listening on,
we're gonna want to use the netstat command
and I recommend you take a look at the different flags
so we can figure out what we want.
And I realize that there's a typo.
Okay, so we do netstat.
Now, a couple of things that we want,
since we want to figure out what port it's listening on,
we want the -l.
This is gonna be display listening server sockets.
Also, I want to be able to do, you know, like a netstat
and then filter based off of, you know, scheduler,
to figure out the schedule process.
So we want to do the -p flag,
which is gonna list out the program name,
so that we can actually grep for the scheduler.
And then finally, the other flag
that I usually like to do, in general,
which is the -n flag here,
which is saying don't resolve the names of the ports, right?
Don't resolve the names of the ports or the IP addresses.
I want to be able to physically see the number,
or then it's going to try to figure out
what is the protocol that uses that specific port.
So let's run those flags.
I'll do -npl, and then I'm gonna do a | grep -i,
the -i means we're going to,
it's going to be case-insensitive,
so it doesn't matter if we capitalize it or not.
And I'll do scheduler.
And we see that the scheduler is listening
on this port right here, 10259.
Now, it's saying notice that the ETCD
is listening on two ports.
Which of these have more client connections established?
And so to do that, we will run the same command,
but this time we're going to grep for ETCD.
All right, so you could see
that we are listening on 2379 and 2381.
So those are the two ports.
And now we want to figure out
how many established connections there are.
So once again, we're gonna do the --help.
We're not gonna be using the listening flag anymore
because we don't care about what's listening.
We wanna find the the established connections.
So we're gonna display all sockets,
that's gonna be the -a.
We're gonna do the -p again,
so we can see all the programs that we can grep for ETCD.
And then, we'll do the n flag, numeric,
so we don't resolve the names.
So now I'll do netstat -npa | grep -i ETCD.
So this is gonna show us all of the established connections.
And this is going to show us
for all the ports, 2379, 2380.
You can see most of the connections are 2379.
You don't see a lot of 2380 zeros.
So we already kind of know the answer,
but let's go ahead and run a command that's going
to actually count the total number of connections.
So I'm gonna do grep -i ETCD,
then I'm gonna do | grep -i
and I'm gonna grep for 2379.
And then we could do a wc -l.
That's gonna count the number of lines.
So we could see there's 67,
and if I change this to 2380, we can see there's one.
So we can see clearly
that the 2379 has way more connections, so I'll select that.
And we could see that this is just saying
that the reason for this is because 2379 is the port
of ETCD to which all control plane components connect to.
2380 is only for peer-to-peer connectivity.
And so that's only used
when you have multiple control plane nodes,
which in this case we don't.
And so that's going to wrap up this lab.

--- Pod Networking ---

In this lecture we discuss about pod networking in Kubernetes.
So far, we have set up several Kubernetes master and worker nodes and configured networking between
them.
So they are all on a network that can reach each other.
We also make sure the firewall and network security groups are configured correctly to allow for the
Kubernetes control plane components to reach each other.
Assume that we have also set up all the Kubernetes control plane components, such as the cube API server,
the etcd servers, kubelets, etc. and we are finally ready to deploy our applications.
But before we can do that, there is something that we must address.
We talked about the network that connects the nodes together, but there's also another layer of networking
that is crucial to the clusters functioning, and that is the networking at the pod layer.
Our Kubernetes cluster is soon going to have a large number of pods and services running on it.
How are the pods addressed?
How do they communicate with each other?
How do you access the services running on these parts internally from within the cluster, as well as
externally from outside the cluster.
These are challenges that Kubernetes expects you to solve.
As of today, Kubernetes does not come with a built in solution for this.
It expects you to implement a networking solution that solves these challenges.
However, Kubernetes has laid out clearly the requirements for pod networking.
Let's take a look at what they are.
Kubernetes expects every pod to get its own unique IP address, and that every pod should be able to
reach every other pod within the same node using that IP address.
And every pod should be able to reach every other pod on other nodes as well, using the same IP address.
It doesn't care what IP address that is and what range or subnet it belongs to.
As long as you can implement a solution that takes care of automatically assigning IP addresses and
establish connectivity between the pods in a node as well as pods on different nodes, you're good without
having to configure any Nat rules.
So how do you implement a model that solves these requirements?
Now there are many networking solutions available out there that does this, but we have already learned
about networking concepts routing, IP address management, namespaces and CNI.
So let's try to use that knowledge to solve this problem by ourselves first.
This will help in understanding how other solutions work.
I know there is a bit of repetition, but I'm trying to relate the same concept and approach all the
way from plain network namespaces on Linux all the way to Kubernetes.
So we have a three node cluster.
It doesn't matter which one is master or worker.
They all run pods either for management or workload purposes.
As far as networking is concerned, we're going to consider all of them as the same.
So first let's plan what we're going to do.
The nodes are part of an external network and has IP addresses in the 192.168.1. series, node one is
assigned 11, node two is 12, and node three is 13.
Next step.
When containers are created, Kubernetes creates network namespaces for them to enable communication
between them.
We attach these namespaces to a network.
But what network?
We've learned about networks that can be created within nodes to attach namespaces.
So we create a bridge network on each node and then bring them up.
It's time to assign an IP address to the bridge interfaces or networks.
But what IP address.
We decide that each person network will be on its own subnet.
Choose any private address range, say ten 244.11244.2 and ten 244.3.
Next we set the IP address for the bridge interface.
So we have built our base.
The remaining steps are to be performed for each container and every time a new container is created.
So we write a script for it.
Now, you don't have to know any kind of complicated scripting.
It's just a file that has all commands we will be using, and we can run this multiple times for each
container.
Going forward.
To attach a container to the network, we need a pipe or virtual network cable.
We create that using the IP link add command.
Don't focus on the options as they are similar to what we saw in our previous lectures.
Assume that they vary depending on the inputs.
We then attach one end to the container and another end to the bridge.
Using the IP link, set command with an assigned IP address using the IP addr command, and add a route
to the default gateway.
But what IP do we add?
We either manage that ourselves or store that information in some kind of database.
For now, we will assume it is 10.244 .1.2, which is a free IP in the subnet.
We discuss about IP address management in detail in one of the upcoming lectures.
Finally, we bring up the interface.
We then run the same script, this time for the second container with its information, and gets the
container connected to the network.
The two containers can now communicate with each other.
We copy the script to the other nodes and run the script on them to assign IP address and connect those
containers to their own internal networks.
So we have solved the first part of the challenge.
The pods all get their own unique IP address and are able to communicate with each other on their own
nodes.
The next part is to enable them to reach other pods on other nodes.
Say for example, the pod at ten 244 1.2 on node one wants to ping pod 10 to 4 4.2.2 on node two.
As of now, the first has no idea where the address ten 244.2.2 is because it is on a different network
than its own, so it routes to node one IP as it is said to be the default gateway.
Node one doesn't know either, since 10 to 44 .2.2 is a private network on node two.
Add a root to node ones routing table to route traffic to 10 to 44 .2.2 via the second node's IP at
192.168.1.12.
Once the root is added, the blue pod is able to ping across.
Similarly, we configure root on all hosts to all the other hosts with information regarding the respective
networks within them.
Now this works fine in this simple setup, but this will require a lot more configuration as and when
your underlying network architecture gets complicated.
Instead of having to configure routes on each server.
A better solution is to do that on a router if you have one in your network, and point all hosts to
use that as the default gateway.
That way, you can easily manage routes to all networks in the routing table on the router.
With that, the individual virtual networks we created with the address ten .244.1.0 slash 24.
On each node now form a single large network with the address 10.244.0.0 slash 16.
It's time to tie everything together.
We performed a number of manual steps to get the environment ready with the bridged networks and routing
tables.
We then wrote a script that can be run for each container that performs the necessary steps required
to connect each container to the network.
And we executed the script manually.
Of course, we don't want to do that, as in large environments where thousands of pods are created
every minute.
So how do we run this script automatically when a pod is created on Kubernetes?
That's where CNI comes in.
Acting as the middleman.
CNI tells Kubernetes that this is how you should call a script as soon as you create a container, and
CNI tells us this is how your script should look like.
So we need to modify the script a little bit to meet CNI standards.
It should have an add section that will take care of adding a container to the network, and a delete
section that will take care of deleting container interfaces from the network and freeing the IP address,
etc..
So our script is ready.
The container runtime on each node is responsible for creating containers.
Whenever a container is created, the container runtime looks at the CNI configuration passed as a command
line argument when it was run, and identifies our scripts name.
It then looks in the CNI bin directory to find our script, and then executes the script with the add
command and the name and namespace ID of the container, and then our script takes care of the rest.
We will look at how and where the CNI is configured in Kubernetes in the next lecture, along with practice
tests.
For now, let's set from the Pod Networking Concepts lecture.
Hopefully that should give you enough knowledge on inspecting networking within pods in a Kubernetes
cluster.
We will see how other solutions do the same thing that we did in the upcoming lectures.

--- CNI in kubernetes ---

This lecture will discuss about CNI in Kubernetes.
In the prerequisite lectures we started all the way from the absolute basics of network namespaces.
Then we saw how it is done in Docker.
We then discussed why you need standards for networking containers and how the container network interface
came to be.
And then we saw a list of supported plugins available with CNI.
In this lecture we will see how Kubernetes is configured to use these network plugins.
As we discussed in the prerequisite lecture, CNI defines the responsibilities of container runtime
as per CNI container runtimes.
In our case, Kubernetes is responsible for creating container network namespaces, identifying and
attaching those namespaces to the right network by calling the right network plugin.
So where do we specify the CNI plugins for Kubernetes to use?
The CNI plugin must be invoked by the component within Kubernetes that is responsible for creating containers,
because that component must then invoke the appropriate network plugin after the container is created,
the component that is responsible for creating containers is the container runtime.
The two good examples are Containerd and Cri-o.
Not that Docker was the original container runtime, which was later replaced by an abstraction called
container D, which we kind of explained in the beginning of this course.
Now, we discussed earlier that there are many network plugins available today.
How do you configure these container runtimes to use a particular plugin?
First of all, the network plugins are all installed in the directory op cni bin.
So that's where the container runtimes find the plugins.
But which plugin to use and how to use it is configured in the directory forward slash forward slash
CNI forward slash net d.
There may be multiple configuration files in this directory that's responsible for configuring each
plugin.
If you look at the CNI bin directory, you'll see that it has all the supported CNI plugins as executables
such as the bridge, DHCP, flannel, etc. the CNI config directory has a set of configuration files.
This is where container runtime looks to find out which plugin needs to be used.
In this case it finds the bridge configuration file.
If there are multiple files here, it will choose the one in alphabetical order.
If you look at the bridge conf file, it looks like this.
This is a format defined by the CNI standard for a plugin configuration file.
Its name is minute.
Type is bridge.
It also has a set of other configurations which we can relate to.
The concepts we discussed in the prerequisite lectures on bridging, routing and masquerading in Nat.
D is gateway defines whether the bridge interface should get an IP address assigned so it can act as
a gateway.
The IP masquerade defines if a Nat rule should be added for IP masquerading.
The iPam section defines iPam configuration.
This is where you specify the subnet or range of IP addresses that will be assigned to pods and any
necessary routes.
The type host local indicates that the IP addresses are managed locally on this host, unlike a DHCP
server maintaining it remotely.
The type can also be set to DHCP to configure an external DHCP server.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice exercises and practice working with CNI in Kubernetes.

--- Lab - CNI ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Explore CNI (optional) ---

Instructor: So, for the first question,
it's asking us to inspect the kubelet service
and identify the container runtime endpoint
that's set for this Kubernetes cluster.
So, I'm gonna do a ps -aux | grep -i kubelet.
And we can see there's a lot of information.
So I'm gonna further drill that down,
hence, I'm gonna grep for container -runtime.
And we can see the --container-runtime-endpoint flag
is set to unix:///var/run/containerd/containerd.sock.
So I will select this one.
What is the path configured with all binaries
of CNI supported plug-ins?
So all of the plug-ins
are going to be stored in /opt/cni/bin.
And so, if I then do an ls,
we can see all of the binaries here.
So, it's going to be /opt/cni/bin.
Identify which of the below plugins is not available
in the list of available CNI plugins on the host?
So let's see, vlan, we have vlan there.
We have, let's see, cisco, do we have cisco?
Doesn't look like we have cisco.
Let's just double check if the other two are there.
So bridge, we've got bridge.
Dhcp, we've got dhcp.
So cisco is not there.
What is the CNI plugin
configured to be used on this Kubernetes cluster?
So to see that, we can just do a ls /etc/cni/net.d.
So this is going to tell us
which plugin has been configured,
and we could see it's flannel.
So I'll select flannel.
And what binary executable file
will be run by the kubelet
after a container and its associated namespaces are created?
So if I cat that file, and let me actually move into there.
Here we can see that the binary
that it's gonna run is flannel.
And then after that, it's gonna run portmap.
So the answer is flannel.
And that's gonna match up with this binary here.
So we'll say flannel.
And that's going to wrap up this lab.

--- ipam weave ---

Hello and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we discussed about IP address management.
So how does IP address management work in Kubernetes.
This section does not concern the IP address assigned to the nodes in the network.
We can manage that on your own or with your own external iPam solutions.
What this section covers is how are the virtual bridge networks in the nodes assigned an IP subnet,
and how are the pods assigned an IP?
Where is this information stored and who is responsible for ensuring there are no duplicate IPS assigned?
Let's start with the Who.
Let's ask CNI as they are the ones who define the standards.
CNI says it is the responsibility of the CNI plugin, the network solution provider, to take care of
assigning IPS to the containers.
Remember the basic plugin we built earlier?
We actually took care of assigning IP addresses within this plugin.
There was a section for assigning IP to the container network namespace.
But how do we manage these IPS?
Now?
Kubernetes doesn't care how we do it, we just need to do it by making sure we don't assign any duplicate
IPS and manage it properly.
An easy way to do it is to store the list of IPS in a file, and make sure we have necessary code in
our script to manage this file properly.
This file would be placed on each host and manages the IPS of pods on those nodes.
Instead of coding that ourselves in our script, CNI comes with two built in plugins to which you can
outsource this task to.
In this case, the plugin that implements the approach that we followed for managing the IP addresses
locally on each host is the host local plugin, but it is still our responsibility to invoke that plugin
in our script.
Or we can make our script dynamic to support different kinds of plugins.
The CNI configuration file has a section called iPam, in which we can specify the type of plugin to
be used, the subnet and route to be used.
These details can be read from our script to invoke the appropriate plugin, instead of hard coding
it to use host local every time.
Well, for this lecture, head over to the Practice Test and explore iPam in the CNI plugin.

--- Lab - Networking CNIs ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Service Networking ---

In this lecture we will discuss about service networking.
In the previous lectures we talked about pod networking, how bridge networks are created within each
node, and how pods get a namespace created for them, and how interfaces are attached to those namespaces,
and how pods get an IP address assigned to them within the subnet assigned for that node.
And we also saw through routes or other overlay techniques, we can get the pods in different nodes
to talk to each other, forming a large virtual network where all pods can reach each other.
Now, you would rarely configure your pods to communicate directly with each other.
If you want a pod to access services hosted on another pod, you would always use a service.
Let's quickly recap the different kinds of services to make the orange pod accessible to the blue pod.
We create an orange service.
The orange service gets an IP address and a name assigned to it.
The blue pod can now access the orange pod through the Orange Services IP or its name.
We'll talk about name resolution in the upcoming lectures.
For now, let's just focus on IP addresses.
The blue and orange pod are on the same node.
What about access from the other pods on other nodes?
When a service is created, it is accessible from all pods on the cluster, irrespective of what nodes
the pods are on.
While a pod is hosted on a node, a service is hosted across the cluster.
It is not bound to a specific node.
But remember the service is only accessible from within the cluster.
This type of service is known as cluster IP.
If the orange pod was hosting a database application that is to be only accessed from within the cluster,
then this type of service works just fine.
Say, for instance, the purple pod was hosting a web application to make the application on the pod
accessible.
Outside the cluster, we create another service of type node port.
This service also gets an IP address assigned to it and works just like cluster IP.
As in all the other pods can access this service using its IP.
But in addition, it also exposes the application on a port on all nodes in the cluster.
That way, external users or applications have access to the service.
So that's the topic of our discussion for this lecture.
Our focus is more on services and less on pods.
How are the services getting these IP addresses and how were they made available across all the nodes
in the cluster?
How is the service made available to external users through a port on each node?
Who is doing that and how and where do we see it?
So let's get started.
Let's start on a clean slate.
We have a three node cluster.
No pods or services yet we know that every Kubernetes node runs a kubelet process which is responsible
for creating pods.
Each kubelet service on each node watches the changes in the cluster through the kube API server, and
every time a new pod is to be created, it creates the pod on the nodes.
It then invokes the CNI plugin to configure networking for that pod.
Similarly, each node runs another component known as kube proxy.
Kube proxy watches the changes in the cluster through kube API server, and every time a new service
is to be created, kube proxy gets into action.
Unlike pods, services are not created on each node or assigned to each node.
Services are a cluster wide concept.
They exist across all the nodes in the cluster.
As a matter of fact, they don't exist at all.
There is no server or service really listening on the IP of the service.
We have seen that pods have containers, and containers have namespaces with interfaces and IPS assigned
to those interfaces with services.
Nothing like that exists.
There are no processes or namespaces or interfaces for a service.
It's just a virtual object.
Then how do they get an IP address, and how were we able to access the application on the pod through
service?
When we create a service object in Kubernetes, it is assigned an IP address from a predefined range.
The kube proxy components running on each node gets that IP address and creates forwarding rules on
each node in the cluster, saying any traffic coming to this IP, the IP of the service should go to
the IP of the pod.
Once that is in place, whenever a pod tries to reach the IP of the service, it is forwarded to the
pods IP address, which is accessible from any node in the cluster.
Now remember, it's not just the IP, it's an IP and port combination.
Whenever services are created or deleted, the kube proxy component creates or deletes these rules.
So how are these rules created?
Kube proxy supports different ways, such as user space, where kube proxy listens on a port for each
service, and proxies connections to the pods by creating ipvs rules.
Or the third and the default option, and the one familiar to us is using iptables.
The proxy mode can be set using the proxy mode option while configuring the kube proxy service.
If this is not set, it defaults to iptables.
So we'll see how iptables are configured by kube proxy and how you can view them on the nodes.
We have a pod named DB deployed on node one.
It has IP address 10.244.1.2.
We create a service of type cluster IP to make this pod available within the cluster.
When the service is created, Kubernetes assigns an IP address to it.
It is set to 10.103.132.104.
This range is specified in the kube API servers option called Service Cluster IP range, which is by
default set to 10.0.0.0 slash 24.
In my case, if I look at my kube API server option, I see it is set to 10.96.0.0 slash 12.
That gives my services IP anywhere from 10.96.0. 0 to 1 0.111.255.255.
A relative point to mention here.
When I set up my pod networking, I provided a Pod network Cidr range of 10.244.0.0 16, which gives
my pod's IP addresses from 10 to 40 40. 0 to 1 244.255.255.
The reason I brought this up here is because whatever range you specify for each of these networks,
it shouldn't overlap, which it doesn't in this case.
Both of these should have its own dedicated range of IPS to work with.
There shouldn't be a case where a pod and a service are assigned the same IP address.
So getting back to services, that's how my service got an IP address of 10.103.132.104.
You can see the rules created by kube proxy in the iptables Nat table.
Output.
Search for the name of the service as all rules created by kube proxy have a comment with the name of
the service on it.
These rules mean any traffic going to the IP address.
Ten 103132.104 on port 3306, which is the IP of the service, should have its destination address changed
to 10 to 44 .1.2 and port 3306, which is the IP of the pod.
This is done by adding a Nat rule to iptables.
Similarly, when you create a service of type node port, kube proxy creates iptables rules to forward
all traffic coming on a port on all nodes to the respective backend ports.
You can also see kube proxy create these entries in the kube proxy logs itself.
In the logs you will find what proxy it uses.
In this case it's iptables and then adds an entry when it added a new service for the database.
Note that the location of this file might vary depending on your installation.
If you don't see these entries, you must also check the verbosity level of the process as well.
Well, that's it about service networking.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Lab - Service Networking ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Service Networking (optional) ---

Instructor: So, the first question it's asking us,
"What network range are the nodes in the cluster a part of?"
So, what this is asking us,
what is the IP address of the nodes?
Not the pods or the services, but the nodes itself.
So, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do
a kubectl get nodes -o, and I'm gonna do wide.
And I'm gonna look for the internal IP of my nodes.
So, I'm on the control plane, so 192.16.10.10.
And so now if I take a look at the interfaces on this node
I could do an IP add.
And we're gonna see all of the interfaces.
And so, if we go down to ethernet zero or ethernet one,
we wanna look for whichever interface has this IP address
which is ethernet zero, which has 192.6.10.10.
So, the subnet is going to be 192.168.10.0/24.
24 means that the last eight bits, so the last octet
is going to be reserved for the host addresses.
So we want 192.168...
Sorry, 192.6.10.0/24.
So that's what all of the nodes are gonna be using.
What is the range of IP addresses
configured for pods on this cluster?
So first of all, we have to see
what we're doing from a networking perspective.
And so, I'm gonna just do a kubectl
get all --all-namespaces
just to see everything that's deployed.
And if we look at the kube system namespace,
we could see that we have a weave pod.
So for networking, we're using weave.
So I'm actually gonna take a look at the logs of that pod
to see if it's gonna give us some information
about what IP addresses are gonna be used
for the pods in our cluster.
So, I'll do a kubectl logs.
I'll grab one of the weave pods.
And I'm just gonna start at the top
and just kind of scroll my way down
until I see a log message that tells us
what subnet's gonna use.
And what we wanna do is look for something like ipalloc
for IP allocation,
and we can see ipalloc range 10.244.0.0/16.
So, any pods that you deploy,
they're gonna be part of this subnet here.
So, the answer is 10.244.0.0/16.
Now, the next question is asking,
"What is the IP range configured
for the services within the cluster?"
And to see the IP address range for services,
what we wanna do is take a look
at the configuration of the API server.
So the API server,
it's manifests are gonna be located in /etsy,
I think it's kubernetes/manifests.
And we're gonna look at the kube-apiserver.
And we're gonna go to the top
and there should be a certain flag that specifies
the service range or the IP address range for the services.
And here we go, service-cluster-ip-range
which is 10.96.0.0/12.
Next question's asking us how many cube proxy pods
are deployed in this cluster?
So, I'm gonna do a kubectl get pods -n kube-system.
We could see that we have two kube-proxy pods.
So, I'll select two.
What type of proxy is the kube-proxy configured to use?
Well for this, well, let's take a look
at the kube-proxy pods themselves
and we'll see if the logs tell us anything.
So, I'll do kubectl logs, and I'll grab one of these pods.
And I'm just gonna look through the logs
to see if it tells us what type of proxy it's using.
So, detecting node IP address using IP tables proxy.
Okay, so this is probably the answer right here
using IP tables proxy.
So, let's select IP tables.
And finally, it's asking how does the Kubernetes cluster
ensure that the kube-proxy pod
runs on all nodes in the cluster?
Now, just knowing based off of this question,
you know, what is the methodology that we use
to normally deploy on every single node in a cluster?
Usually it's a DaemonSet.
But let's confirm that's the case.
So, I'm gonna do a kubectl get all -- all-namespaces
and I'm just gonna look for anything with kube-proxy.
So obviously under pods I see the kube-proxies, that's fine.
Under services, there's nothing there.
Under DaemonSet looks like we do have a kube-proxy.
So, there's nothing under Deployment.
Nothing under ReplicaSet, it's under DaemonSet.
So, that means that we are using a DaemonSet
to deploy a kube-proxy pod onto every single node.
And so, that's going to wrap up this lab.

--- DNS in kubernetes ---

In this lecture we will discuss about DNS in the Kubernetes cluster.
If you are new to DNS, make sure you go through the prerequisites section on DNS where we discuss what
DNS is, what are the tools used for working with DNS, such as host Nslookup and the Dig utility,
and the different types of DNS records like a, CNAME, etc. and we also saw how to set up our own DNS
server using DNS.
In this lecture we will see what names are assigned to what objects.
What are service DNS records, pod DNS records?
What are the different ways you can reach one pod from another?
And in the next lecture we will see how Kubernetes implements DNS in the cluster.
So we have a three node Kubernetes cluster with some pods and services deployed on them.
Each node has a node name and IP address assigned to it.
The node names and IP addresses of the cluster are probably registered in a DNS server in your organization.
Now how that is managed, who accesses them are not of concern in this lecture.
In this lecture, we discuss about DNS resolution within the cluster between the different components
in the cluster, such as pods and services.
Kubernetes deploys a built in DNS server by default when you set up a cluster.
If you set up Kubernetes manually, then you do it by yourself.
We will see how that is done and how it is configured in the next lecture.
As far as this lecture is concerned, we will see how it helps pods resolve other parts and services
within the cluster.
So we don't really care about nodes.
We focus purely on pods and services within the cluster.
As long as our cluster networking is set up correctly.
Following the best practices we learned so far in this section, and all pods and services can get their
own IP address and can reach each other, which should be good.
Let's start with just two pods and a service.
I have a test pod on the left with the IP set to 1234.1.5, and I have a web pod on the right with the
IP set to 1244.2.5.
Looking at their IPS, you can guess that they're probably hosted on two different nodes, but that
doesn't really matter as far as DNS is concerned.
We assume that all ports and services can reach each other using their IP addresses.
To make the web server accessible to the test port, we create a service.
Rename it Web Service.
The service gets an IP ten 10737.188.
Whenever a service is created, the Kubernetes DNS service creates a record for the service.
It maps the service name to the IP address.
So within the cluster, any pod can now reach this service using its service name.
Remember, we talked about namespaces earlier that everyone within the namespace address each other
just with their first names, and to address anyone in another namespace, you use their full names.
In this case, since the test pod and the web pod and its associated service are all in the same namespace,
the default namespace.
You are able to simply reach the web service from the test pod using just the service name web service.
Let's assume the web service was in a separate namespace named apps.
Then to refer to it from the default namespace, you would have to say WebService dot apps.
The last name of the service is now the name of the namespace.
So here WebService is the name of the service, and apps is the name of the namespace for each namespace.
The DNS server creates a subdomain.
All the services are grouped together into another subdomain called SVC.
So what was that about?
Let's take a closer look.
Web service is the name of the service, and apps is the name of the namespace.
For each namespace.
The DNS server creates a subdomain with its name.
All pods and services for a namespace are thus grouped together within a subdomain in the name of the
namespace.
All the services are further grouped together into another subdomain called SVC.
So you can reach your application with the name Web service SVC.
Finally, all the services and pods are grouped together into a root domain for the cluster, which
is set to cluster dot local by default, so you can access the service using the URL web service dot
svc cluster local.
And that's the fully qualified domain name for the service.
So that's how services are resolved within the cluster.
What about pods?
Records for pods are not created by default, but we can enable that explicitly.
We will see that in the next lecture.
Once enabled, records are created for pods as well.
It does not use the pod name though.
For each pod, Kubernetes generates a name by replacing the dots in the IP address with dashes.
The namespace remains the same and type is set to pod.
The root domain is always cluster dot, local.
Similarly, the pod in the default namespace gets a record in the DNS server with its IP converted to
a hostname.
Ten 240 415 and namespace set to default type is pod and the root is cluster dot local.
This resolves to the IP address of the pod.

--- CoreDNS in Kubernetes ---

In this lecture we will discuss how Kubernetes implements DNS in the cluster.
In the previous lecture, we saw how you can address a service or pod from another pod.
In this lecture we will see how Kubernetes makes that possible.
Say you were given two pods with two IP addresses.
How would you do it?
Based on what we learned in the prerequisite lectures on DNS?
An easy way to get them to resolve each other is to add an entry into each of their Etsy hosts file
on the first pod.
I would say the second pod web is at 10.244.2.5.
And on the second pod.
I would say the first pod test is at 10.244 .1.5.
But of course, when you have thousands of pods in the cluster and hundreds of them being created and
deleted every minute, this is not a suitable solution.
So we moved these entries into a central DNS server.
We then point these pods to the DNS server by adding an entry into their Etsy resolv.conf file, specifying
that the Nameserver is at the IP address of the DNS server, which happens to be 1.96.0.1.
In this case, every time a new pod is created, we add a record in the DNS server for that pod so that
other pods can access the new pod and configure the resolv.conf file in the pod to point to the DNS
server, so that the new pod can resolve other pods in the cluster.
This is kind of how Kubernetes does it, except that it does not create similar entries for pods to
map pod name to its IP address, as we have seen in the previous lecture.
It does that for services for pods.
It forms hostnames by replacing dots with dashes in the IP address of the pod.
Kubernetes implements DNS in the same way it deploys a DNS server within the cluster.
Prior to version 1.12, the DNS server implemented by Kubernetes was known as kube DNS.
With Kubernetes version 1.12, the DNS server is called DNS.
We took a brief look at DNS in one of the prerequisite lectures.
So how is the DNS setup in the cluster.
The DNS server is deployed as a pod in the kube system namespace in the Kubernetes cluster.
Well, they are deployed as two pods for redundancy as part of a replica set.
They're actually a replica set within a deployment, but it doesn't really matter.
But we'll just see.
Core DNS as a pod in this lecture.
This pod runs the core DNS executable, the same executable that we ran when we deployed core DNS ourselves.
Core DNS requires a configuration file.
In our case we used a file named core file.
So does Kubernetes.
It uses a file named Core file located at Etsy core DNS.
Within this file you have a number of plugins configured.
The ones highlighted in orange plugins are configured for handling errors, reporting, health monitoring,
metrics, cache, etc. the plugin that makes core DNS work with Kubernetes is the Kubernetes plugin,
and that is where the top level domain name of the cluster is set.
In this case cluster dot local.
so every record in the core DNS DNS server falls under this domain.
With the Kubernetes plugin, there are multiple options.
The pods option you can see here is what is responsible for creating a record for pods in the cluster.
Remember we talked about a record being created for each pod by converting the IPS into the format.
That's disabled by default, but it can be enabled with this entry here.
Any record that the DNS server console.
For example, say a pod tries to reach w-w-w-what google.com, it is forwarded to the nameserver specified
in the DNS pods.
Etsy Resolv.conf file.
The Etsy resolv.conf file is set to use the nameserver from the Kubernetes node.
Also note that this core file is passed in to the pod as a config map object.
That way, if you need to modify this configuration, you can edit the config map object.
We now have the core DNS pod up and running using the appropriate Kubernetes plugin.
It watches the Kubernetes cluster for new pods or services, and every time a pod or service is created,
it adds a record for it in its database.
Next step is for the pods to point to the core DNS server.
What address do the pods use to reach the DNS server?
When we deploy the DNS solution, it also creates a service to make it available to other components
within the cluster.
The service is named as kube DNS.
By default, the IP address of this service is configured as the Nameserver on pods.
Now you don't have to configure this yourself.
The DNS configurations on pods are done by Kubernetes automatically when the pods are created.
Want to guess which Kubernetes component is responsible for that?
The Kubelet.
If you look at the config file of the Kubelet, you will see the IP of the DNS server and domain in
it.
Once the pods are configured with the right name server, you can now resolve other pods and services.
You can access the web service using just web service or web service default or web service default
or web service default SVC cluster.
If you try to manually look up the web service using Nslookup or the Host Web Service command, it will
return the fully qualified domain name of the web service, which happens to be Web Service default
SVC cluster local.
But you didn't ask for that.
You just set web service.
So how did it look up for the full name?
It so happens the Resolv.conf file also has a search entry which is set to default cluster local as
well as SVC local and cluster dot local.
This allows you to find the service using any name, web service or web service default or web service
default.
However, note that it only has search entries for service, so you won't be able to reach a pod the
same way.
For that, you need to specify the full FQDN of the pod.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice test and practice working with DNS on a Kubernetes cluster.
I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Lab - CoreDNS in Kubernetes ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Explore DNS (optional) ---

-: Okay, in this video we're gonna look at
CoreDNS in Kubernetes.
So the first question is to identify the DNS solution
implemented in this cluster.
So let's do set my alias.
K equals kubectl.
Let's do get pods.
Dash n kube system.
We see all the pods in the kube system in space
and we see that we have the CoreDNS pods.
So these are so, so we use CoreDNS as the DNS solution.
Okay, the next question is how many pods
of the DNS server are deployed?
So we see that there are two,
so that's the answer to that.
There are two plots.
Now, what is the name
of the service created for accessing CoreDNS?
So the name of the service created for accessing CoreDNS,
so let's do a service that is
we see in the kube system namespace
and we see that there's only one service called KubeDNS.
So that's the service that's used
for accessing the DNS server.
So that is kube-DNS.
Now, what is the IP
of the CoreDNS server that should be configured
on the pods to resolve services.
So all the pods should have the IP of the CoreDNS service.
And that IP is 10.96.0.10.
So that's the IP of this service.
So that's this one.
Now, where is the configuration file located
for configuring the CoreDNS service?
So let's look at the CoreDNS service.
Let's do a system.
We see that we have these two pods.
So let's take a closer look at those pods
to a describe pod in the
kube system namespace.
And we see additional information.
And here is the container that runs the CoreDNS service
and it's, this is image that runs the, the CoreDNS, 1.7.0.
And these are the port that's that are exposed.
But here, if you look at here
these are the arguments that are passed
to the CoreDNS container.
So the config file is at /etc/CoreDNS/corefile.
So that's etc, CoreDNS, core file.
So that's the configuration file.
How is this core file passed into the CoreDNS pod?
So is it pulled from gate when it starts
or is it configured as a conflict map object?
Does it come built in,
or is it stored on the, on the master node?
So if you look at this, the path etc CoreDNS,
let's see if there are any mounts.
So there are mounts.
So we have a etc CoreDNS mount
and it says that it is coming from config volume.
And we can also see this
if we do,
so let's say we do a
kubectl, get pod, and we look at it in the yaml format.
So if you look at it this way, scroll up. Okay.
So this is the spec section.
So you can ignore all of this.
Always look at the spec section.
And we have the containers.
So for the container, we have the arguments
that we just saw, the image and everything.
If you scroll down, you'll see the volume mounts.
So you have volume amounts here.
And this the etc CoreDNS is the volume mount,
and it's coming from a config volume.
And so if you have volume mounts, then you have volumes.
So you scroll down and receive volumes.
So this is where the volumes are configured.
And the volume for config mount is the config volume.
And here you see,
you have the core file and CoreDNS
CoreDNS is the config volume.
So config map.
So this is what indicates,
this is what tells us that it's loaded from a config map.
Okay, so the next question is, what is the name
of the config map object created for core file?
So for this volume, this config map,
the name of the config map is CoreDNS.
So that's, that's the name of the config map.
Now, what is the root domain
or zone configured for this kubernetes cluster?
So to find that out, we have to look into that config map.
So let's do that now.
So let's do a get config map
in the kube system namespace.
So we have the CoreDNS.
So let's do a describe,
describe config map
in the kube system namespace.
These, these are the DNS config for, for Kubernetes.
And right here, this is the root, this is the root domain.
So let's cluster.local.
Now we have deployed a set of pods and services
in the default and payroll namespaces, to inspect them
and go to the next question, right?
So let's do that.
So let's look at get pods.
And we see that there are indeed the hr
the simple web app and tests.
So there's, there are four pods
and then there's also another namespace
called payroll.
And in the payroll namespace
there's another called web, right?
So there are multiple applications, so that's fine.
Now, what name can be used to access the HR web server
from the test application?
So here, here we have the HR web server
and here we have the test application.
So we wanna access the HR web server
from the test application.
So you can execute the curl command,
or you can test applications also have a UI.
So let's, let's use the UI.
I like the UI this is the UI of the test application.
And we'll use this to run a connectivity test.
And, but first, how do you access the HR application, right?
So if you do a HR
and assuming it's on 8080, it's not working.
So we had to find out what is the service
that's used to access this.
So let's do a kubectl get svc
because that's in the default namespace,
and we see that there are multiple services.
You, you have the test service and the webservice.
I'm assuming the test service is for the test application.
And I'm not sure if the webservice
is for the HR application.
So let's do a describe on the webservice.
Service is missing.
svc.
And we see that the selector here, name equals HR right?
So that indicates that the webservice
is a service for the HR application.
So that, that's what connects them two.
So it's webservice.
So I'm gonna use webservice and the port, if you see is 80.
So that's what I'm gonna do.
So I'm going to use webservice and the port 80
and let's run a test.
Okay, so it says this is the HR service.
So that's, that's good.
So that confirms that.
So it's, it's webservice.
That's what is the answer to this question.
Okay, now, which of the names cannot be used to
access the HR service from the test pod?
So we know that to access the, the HR service from
the test pod we just used webservice, that works.
Does webservice.default work, it will because
we are in the default namespace.
So let's try that, default.
Yep. So that works.
Does webservice.default.svc work?
.svc
Yes, because svc stands for service
and webservice is a service,
in the default namespace.
So that's, that's fine.
The next one is webservice.default.pod.
So let's try pod.
So that fails.
So that's not, that's not the right kind of convention.
So this is the right answer to this question.
Now, which of the below name can be used to access
the payroll service from the test application?
So the payroll service as we know is,
it must be in the payroll
namespace, right?
So let's explore that.
Let's do a kubectl, get pod, payroll.
And then so there's a webservice there.
And then let's do a get svc - n payroll.
And we see a webservice here.
So this is, let's make sure that this is for that.
So let's do a kubectl describe, svc, webservice.
In the payroll service.
The payroll namespace.
Okay and, we see that the selector's name equals web app.
So that's, that's for this.
So yes, the webservice is used for the web application
in the payroll service.
So in the payroll namespace, we'll just assume
that this is the payroll service.
So which of the below name can you use to access
the payroll service from the test application?
So the test application we know
is in the default namespace.
So if you do webservice from the default namespace
it's going to go to the HR app.
That's not what we want.
We want this, we wanna access the webservice
in the payroll namespace.
So web is not the correct answer.
Webservice.default is gonna go to the HR app,
webservice.payroll because it's in the payroll namsespace.
So let's try that.
And it says this is a payroll.
So yeah, so it's webservice.payroll.
So that's the answer to this question.
Now, which of the below name cannot be used to
access the payroll service from the test application?
So webservice.payroll, you know it works,
webservice.payroll.svc.cluster.
So payroll.svc.cluster.
So that doesn't work because it should either be,
webservice.payroll or it should be webservice.payroll.svc
Or it should be webservice.payroll.svc.cluster.local
because cluster.local is the root domain, the root zone.
So you should always, you should either use
cluster.local or you shouldn't use anything at all.
So cluster is something that doesn't work.
Now we just deployed a web server, web app
that accesses a database MySQL server.
So let's check that out.
Kubectl, get deployment.
And we see that there's a web app, indeed.
And then it accesses a database, MySQL server,
however the web server
is failing to connect to the database.
So we don't, we don't see a MySQL server here,
so let's do a, get,
let's do a kubectl, get pods
and all namespaces so we can see all the pods.
So we can ignore most of these.
But if you look at these two, so there are two namespaces
and we have the web app, the pod that runs the web app.
So it says web app. So this is web app.
So this is, this is our application.
And if you look here, we have the MySQL on database here.
So it is in the payroll service, payroll namespace.
So basically this web app is trying to connect
to the MySQL pod in the payroll namespace.
But it's not able to access.
Look at the applications and the web server interface
can be seen by clicking the tab web server
at the top of the terminal.
So here we have the web server.
So just open that, and as you can see it is
in a failed state.
So if you look at the environment variables
that were passed to it,
it says the db host is MySQL, db database not set,
db user route, db password, all of that.
So it says the name does not resolve.
So the issue is with the name.
So if you look at this, it says MySQL, so MySQL is a name.
So the web app here is trying to get to the
MySQL service here, which is in the payroll namespace.
So it's not gonna be able to do that.
Let's first see the service configured for it
in the payroll namespace.
So we have the MySQL service, so the service is there
but for the web app to reach the MySQL service
it would need to say MySQL.payroll, right?
So that, that's how it should be.
So let's see where that is configured.
So let's do a kubectl describe deployment web app.
Web app.
And we see that it has environment variables
configured here.
So MySQL route and, and the password.
So let's do
edit, deploy and, and edit it.
Now of course this password here,
this is not a best practice.
It should be going in through
as a secret or some, some other, you know, a safer method.
But we just did that here.
Just keep, just to keep this simple.
So we have the environment here, which is MySQL,
and we're gonna change that to MySQL.payroll.
Okay, so you could just say MySQL.payroll
or MySQL.payroll.svc.
Or MySQL.payroll.svc.cluster.local.
Okay, so let's save that.
Let's check the pods.
Let me see that the older one is terminating
and then the new one is already running.
So let's go back and check the status here.
We see that it's a success.
So now we have db host, which is MySQL.payroll.
And so that's, that's good.
So let's check the work.
Okay, so that, that was successful.
Now the next question is, from the HR pod,
run a nslookup and the MySQL service
and redirect the output to a file.
So from the HR pod.
So we're gonna do a exec HR and then give a command.
And what the command we need to run is nslookup,
we'll do a MySQL and it says it's not found,
so we know that since the HR app is in the default namespace
and MySQL is in the payroll namespace,
we should be appending payroll to the name.
Okay, so that's, that's got us the
the IP address of the MySQL port.
And you can also see the full name of the
MySQL service here.
So let's redirect that to this path.
Let's make sure that it's redirected successfully
and see, see the output. Okay? Yep.
So that's, that's the end of this lab.
Alright, thank you very much.

--- Ingress ---

In this lecture we will discuss ingress in Kubernetes.
One of the common questions that students reach out usually is regarding services and ingress.
What's the difference between the two.
And when to use what.
So we're going to briefly revisit services and work our way towards ingress.
We will start with a simple scenario.
You're deploying an application on Kubernetes for a company that has an online store selling products.
Your application will be available at, say, My Online store.
You build the application into a Docker image and deploy it on Kubernetes cluster as a pod.
In a deployment, your application needs a database.
So you deploy a MySQL database as a pod and create a service of type cluster IP called MySQL service
to make it accessible to our application.
Your application is now working to make the application accessible to the outside world.
You create another service, this time of type node port and make your application available on a high
port on the nodes notes in the cluster.
In this example, a port of 30080 is allocated for the service.
The users can now access your application using the URL http colon slash slash IP of any of your nodes,
followed by port 30080.
That setup works and users are able to access the application whenever traffic increases.
We increase the number of replicas of the pod to handle the additional traffic, and the service takes
care of splitting traffic between the pods.
However, if you have deployed a production grade application before, you know that there are many
more things involved in addition to simply splitting the traffic between the pods.
For example, we do not want the users to have to type in the IP address every time.
So you configure your DNS server to point to the IP of the nodes.
Your users can now access your application using the URL.
My online store and port 30080.
080.
Now, you don't want your users to have to remember port number either.
However, service node ports can only allocate high numbered ports which are greater than 30,000.
So you then bring in an additional layer between the DNS server and your cluster, like a proxy server
that proxies requests on port 80 to port 30080 on your nodes.
You then point your DNS to this server, and users can now access your application by simply visiting
my online store.com.
Now this is if your application is hosted on prem in your data center.
Let's take a step back and see what you could do if you were on a public cloud environment like Google
Cloud Platform.
In that case, instead of creating a service of type node port for your web application, you could
set it to type load balancer.
When you do that, Kubernetes would still do everything that it has to do for a node port, which is
to provision a high port for the service.
But in addition to that, Kubernetes also sends a request to Google Cloud Platform to provision a network
load balancer for this service.
On receiving the request, GCP would then automatically deploy a load balancer configured to route traffic
to the service ports on all nodes and return its information to Kubernetes.
The load balancer has an external IP that can be provided to users to access the application.
In this case, we set the DNS to point to this IP and users access the application using the URL.
My online store.com.
Perfect.
Your company's business grows and you now have new services for your customers.
For example, a video streaming service.
Now you want your users to be able to access your new video streaming service by going to my online
store.com.
Watch your developers develop the new video streaming application as a completely different application,
as it has nothing to do with the existing one.
However, to share the cluster's resources, you deploy the new application as a separate deployment
within the same cluster, you create a service called Video Service of type Load balancer Kubernetes
provisions port 382 for this service and also provisions a network load balancer on the cloud.
The new load balancer has a new IP.
Remember, you must pay for each of these load balancers, and having many such load balancers can inversely
affect your cloud bill.
So how do you direct traffic between each of these load balancers based on the URL that the user types
in?
You need yet another proxy or load balancer that can redirect traffic based on URLs to the different
services.
Now every time you introduce a new service, you have to reconfigure the load balancer.
And finally, you also need to enable SSL for your applications so your users can access your application
using Https.
Now where do you configure that?
It can be done at different levels, either at the application level itself or at the load balancer
level, or at the proxy server level.
But now you don't want your developers to implement it in their applications, as they would do it in
different ways, and it's an additional burden for them to develop additional code to handle that.
You want it to be configured in one place with minimal maintenance.
Now that's a lot of different configuration.
And all of these becomes difficult to manage when your application scales.
It requires involving different individuals in different teams.
You need to configure your firewall rules for each new service, and it's expensive as well as for each
service.
And new cloud native load balancer needs to be provisioned.
Wouldn't it be nice if you could manage all of that within the Kubernetes cluster, and have all that
configuration as just another Kubernetes definition file that lives along with the rest of your application
deployment files?
That's where ingress comes in.
Ingress helps your users access your application using a single, externally accessible URL that you
can configure to route traffic to different services within your cluster based on the URL path.
At the same time, implement SSL security as well.
Think of ingress as a layer seven load balancer built into the Kubernetes cluster that can be configured
using native Kubernetes primitives, just like any other object that we have been working within Kubernetes.
Now remember, even with ingress, you still need to expose it to make it accessible outside the cluster.
So you still have to either publish it as a node port or with a cloud native load balancer.
But that is just a one time configuration.
Going forward, you're going to perform all your load balancing, SSL, and URL based routing configurations
on the ingress controller.
So how does it work?
What is it?
Where is it?
How can you see it and how can you configure it and how does it load balance?
How does it implement SSL without ingress?
How would you do all of these?
Well I would use a reverse proxy or a load balancing solution like nginx or HAProxy or traffic, and
I would deploy them on my Kubernetes cluster and configure them to route traffic to other services.
The configuration involves defining URL routes, configuring SSL certificates.
Ingress is implemented by Kubernetes in kind of the same way you first deploy a supported solution,
which happens to be any of these listed here, and then specify a set of rules to configure ingress.
The solution you deploy is called as an ingress controller, and the set of rules you configure are
called as ingress resources.
Ingress resources are created using definition files like the ones we have been using to create pods,
deployments, and services earlier in this course.
Now remember, a Kubernetes cluster does not come with an ingress controller by default.
If you set up a cluster following the demos in this course, you won't have an ingress controller built
into it.
So if you simply create ingress resources and expect them to work, they won't.
Now let's look at each of these in a bit more detail.
As I mentioned, you do not have an ingress controller on Kubernetes by default, so you must deploy
one.
What do you deploy?
There are a number of solutions available for ingress.
A few of them being GCE, which is Google's Layer seven HTTP Load Balancer, nginx, contour, HAProxy,
traffic and Istio.
Out of these, GCE and nginx are currently being supported and maintained by the Kubernetes project,
and in this lecture we will use nginx as an example.
These ingress controllers are not just another load balancer or nginx server.
The load balancer components are just a part of it.
Ingress controllers have additional intelligence built into them to monitor the Kubernetes cluster for
new definitions or ingress resources, and configure the nginx server accordingly, and nginx controller
is deployed as just another deployment in Kubernetes.
So we start with a deployment definition file named nginx ingress controller with one replica and a
simple pod definition template.
We will label it nginx ingress and the image.
Use these nginx ingress controller.
With the right version.
This is a special build of index.
Built specifically to be used as an ingress controller in Kubernetes, so it has its own set of requirements
within the image.
Within the image, the nginx program is stored at location nginx ingress controller.
So you must pass that as the command to start with nginx controller service.
If you have worked with nginx before, you know that it has a set of configuration options such as a
path to store the logs, keepalive threshold, SSL settings, session timeout, etc. in order to decouple
these configuration data from nginx controller image, you must create a config map object and pass
that in.
Now remember the config map object need not have any entries at this point.
A blank object will do, but creating one makes it easy for you to modify a configuration setting.
In the future.
You will just have to add it in to this config map and not have to worry about modifying the nginx next
configuration files.
You must also pass in two environment variables that carry the pod's name and namespace it is deployed
to.
The nginx service requires these to read the configuration data within the pod, and finally specify
the ports used by the ingress controller, which happens to be 80 and 443.
We then need a service to expose the ingress controller to the external world.
So we create a service of type node port with the nginx ingress label selector to link the service to
the deployment.
As mentioned before, the ingress controllers have additional intelligence built into them to monitor
the Kubernetes cluster for ingress resources and configure the underlying nginx server when something
is changed.
But for the ingress controller to do this, it requires a service account with the right set of permissions.
For that, we create a service account with the correct roles and role bindings.
So to summarize, with the deployment of the nginx ingress image, a service to expose it, a config
map to feed nginx configuration data, and a service account.
With the right permissions to access all of these objects, we should be ready with an ingress controller
in its simplest form.
Now on to the next part of creating ingress resources.
An ingress resource is a set of rules and configurations applied on the ingress controller.
You can configure rules to say simply forward all incoming traffic to a single application, or route
traffic to different applications based on the URL.
So if user goes to my online store, then route to one app, or if the user visits the watch URL, then
route to the video app.
Or you could route user based on the domain name itself.
For example, if the user visits where my online store.
Com then route to the web app or route to the video app.
Let us look at how to configure these in a bit more detail.
The ingress resource is created with a Kubernetes definition file.
In this case, ingress dot YAML.
As with any other object, we have API version kind metadata and spec.
The API version is networking.
IO v1 kind is ingress.
We will name it ingress where and under spec we have default backend.
So the traffic is of course routed to the application services and not pods directly.
The default backend section defines where the traffic will be routed to.
So if it's a single backend then you don't really have any rules.
You can simply specify the service name and port of the backend where service.
Create the ingress resource by running the kubectl create command.
View the created ingress by running the kubectl get ingress command.
The new ingress is now created and routes all incoming traffic directly to the where service.
You use rules when you want to route traffic based on different conditions.
For example, you create one rule for traffic originating from each domain or hostname.
That means when users reach your cluster using the domain my online store.com, you can handle that
traffic using rule one when users reach your reach a cluster using domain name where my online store.
You can handle that traffic using a separate rule.
Use rule three to handle traffic from.
Watch my online store.com and say use a fourth rule to handle everything else.
And just in case you didn't know, you could get different domain names to reach your cluster by adding
multiple DNS entries, all pointing to the same ingress controller service on your Kubernetes cluster.
Now, within each rule, you can handle different paths.
For example, within rule one, you can handle the where path to route the traffic to the cloud application,
and a watch path to route the traffic to the video streaming application.
And a third path that routes anything other than the first two to a 404 not found page.
Similarly, the second rule handles all traffic from where my online.com.
You can have path definition within this rule to route traffic based on different paths.
For example, say you have different applications and services within the apparel section for the shopping
or returns or support when a user goes to my online store.
By default there is the shopping page, but if they go to exchange or support URL, there is different
back end services.
The same goes for rule three where you route traffic to Watch.mandolin.com.
To the video streaming application.
But you can have additional paths in it, such as movies or TV.
And finally, anything other than the ones listed here will go to the fourth rule that will simply show
a 404 not found error page.
So remember, you have rules at the top for each host or domain name, and within each rule you have
different paths to route traffic based on the URL.
Now let's look at how we configure ingress resources in Kubernetes.
We will start where we left off.
We start with a similar definition file this time under spec.
We start with a set of rules.
Now our requirement here is to handle all traffic coming to my online com and route them based on the
URL path.
So we just need a single rule for this since we are only handling traffic to a single domain name,
which is my online store in this case.
Under rules, we have one item, which is an HTTP rule in which we specify different paths.
So paths is an array of multiple items, one path for each URL.
Then we move the back end we used in the first example.
Under the first path, the backend specification remains the same.
It has a service name and port.
Similarly, we create a similar backend entry to the second URL path for the watch service to route
all traffic coming in through slash watch URL to the watch service.
Create the ingress resource using the kubectl create command.
Once created, view additional details about the ingress resource by running the kubectl describe ingress
command.
We.
You now see two backend URLs under the rules and the back end service they are pointing to just as we
created it.
Now if you look closely in the output of this command, you see that there is something about a default
backend.
end.
What might that be?
If a user tries to access a URL that does not match any of these rules, then the user is directed to
the service specified as a default back end.
In this case, it happens to be a service named default HTTP backend, so you must remember to deploy
such a service.
Now back in your application, say a user visits the URL, my online store or com slash listen or slash
eat and you don't have an audio streaming or a food delivery service.
You might want to show them a nice message.
You can do this by configuring a default back end service to display this 404 not found error page.
The third type of configuration is using domain names or host names.
We start by creating a similar definition file for ingress.
Now that we have two domain names, we create two rules, one for each domain.
To split traffic by domain name, we use the host field.
The host field in each rule matches the specified value within the domain name used in the request URL,
and routes traffic to the appropriate backend.
In this case, note that we only have a single backend path for each rule, which is fine.
All traffic from these domain names will be routed to the appropriate backend, irrespective of the
URL path used.
You can still have multiple path specifications in each of these to handle different URL paths.
Now let's compare the two.
Splitting traffic by URL had just one rule, and we split the traffic with two paths to split traffic
by hostname, we used two rules and one path specification in each rule.
Well that's it for this lecture.
Let us now head over to the practice test section and practice working on ingress.
There are two types of labs in this section.
The first one is where an ingress controller resources and applications are already deployed.
And you basically view and walk through the environment, gather data and answer questions.
Towards the end, you would create or modify ingress resources based on needs.
In the second practice test, you will be deploying an ingress controller and resources from scratch.
Good luck and hope you enjoy the labs and I will see you in the next one.

--- Article: Ingress ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Ingress - Annotations and rewrite-target ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab - CKA Ingress Networking - 1 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution -  Ingress Networking 1  - (optional) ---

-: Okay, so let's go through this lab on ingress controller.
So we have deployed ingress controller resources
and applications to explore the setup.
So let's first look at the environment.
So let's look at the nodes, there's a single node.
Let's look at the deployments, so there are no deployments.
Let's check all name spaces,
so there are deployments in other name spaces.
So there's, there are deployments in the app space.
The ingress NGINX space, the Kube system space.
Let's look at the ingress controller
which is usually in Kube system name space.
And we see, nope, it's in the ingress namespace,
which is, sorry, it's given here.
So it's ingress NGINX
and yeah, well so we see the ingress controller
and the other pods right here.
Okay, so which namespace
is the ingress controller deployed in?
So if you on a get pod slash a command
and we see all the pods and we see
the ingress controller here
and we see that it's part of the ingress NGINX name space.
So it's the ingress NGINX name space.
Now what is the name of the ingress controller deployment?
So the ingress controller deployment,
this is the name of the deployment,
so we can also verify that,
but by doing a get deploy
in the ingress NGINX name space
and we see that it's ingress NGINX controller.
So it's ingress NGINX controller.
Now which name space are the applications deployed in?
So we have, yeah,
so here we have the pods for the application
and we have the video wear
and the default backend application.
They're in the app space name space.
How many applications are deployed
in the app space name space?
So we see that there are three pods.
So that's three applications.
Now, which name space is the ingress resource deployed in?
So let's look at the ingress resource.
So we'll do a Kubectl git ingress,
and we'll look at all name spaces.
And we see that we have the ingress wear watch resource
and it's in the app space name space.
Now what is the name of the ingress resource?
So the name of the ingress resource is ingress wear watch.
Now, what is the host configured on the ingress resource?
So you can see that right here.
So it's set to star.
That means all hosts are applicable,
or all or any hosts.
What backend is the wear path on the ingress configured in?
So let's look at the ingress,
ingress wear watch,
ingress resource in a bit more detail.
So that's in the app space, name space.
And here we see the additional details
and we can see the rules.
We see the host and then we see the path.
And we have the wear and the watch path,
and what backend is the wear path configured to?
So the wear is configured
to the wear service, so that's the wear service.
At what path is the video streaming application
made available on the ingress?
So the video streaming application,
the video service, is at the watch path.
So, watch is the answer.
Now if the requirement does not match any
of the configured paths
what service are the requests forwarded to?
So we know that if the requirement,
if it does not match any of these
is going to go to the default backend.
So here it is default HTTP backend,
that's the service, so that's default HTTP backend.
Now view the ingress service using the tab
at the top of the terminal.
So here we have ingress service
and if you look at it, it gives us a 404 not found error.
So what, which page do you see?
So we see a 404 error page.
Now view the applications by appending
the wear and watch to the URL that you opened.
So let me open this.
And we have a wear,
which is this, so this is the wear application.
And then we have the watch.
This is the,
apparently this is the video streaming application, okay?
You're requested to change the URLs
at which the applications are made available.
So make the video streaming application available at stream.
So for that, let's go and edit the ingress resource.
So let's just replace describe with edit.
And this one should be fairly easy.
So here we have the paths.
So we have the wear path for the wear service
and then we have the watch path for the watch service.
So all we have to do is replace this
with stream and let's save that.
So it's immediately replace.
If you refresh the watch path,
now we get 404 error and we replace it
with stream and we now get the video streaming application.
So let's check that out.
Yep, so that's successful.
Now view the video application using the stream,
which we just, we already did so let's skip that.
Now a user is trying to view the eat URL
on the ingress service.
Which paid would he see?
So we know that there's nothing called eat.
So let's just verify.
So there's nothing called eat here
but we don't know if it is there in another space.
So let's try that out.
Eat, so it doesn't, there's nothing.
So it's a 404 error, so there's a 404 error.
Now due to increased demand,
your business decides to take on a new venture,
you acquired a food delivery company,
their applications have been migrated over to your cluster.
So inspect the new deployments in the app space name space.
Okay, so let's check out deploy in
the app space namespace.
And we see that we have the default backend.
We have food along with the video and wear applications.
So this is the new application.
Now you're requested to add a new path to your ingress
to make the food delivery application available
to your customers.
So make the new application available at eat.
So we wanna make it available at eat
so we know that we need to find out
the service that this is exposed on.
So let's try and find that.
So instead of deployment,
let's look at services in the same name space
and we see that we have the food service.
And let's also verify and make sure that the port is 80 80.
So it's food service at port 80 80.
So I'm gonna copy that
and let's go and edit the ingress resource again.
So we have a command for that already, Kubectl edit ingress,
the name of the ingress resource in the app space.
And what we need to do is add an additional path here.
We're going to copy this,
paste that and what we'll do is,
you know that it's food service,
so food service,
and the port number is 80 80,
that's fine, and the path is eat,
and let's save that.
Let's wait for it to finish.
Okay, and let's try and refresh,
and we see the food service application.
Okay, let's check the work.
Okay now view the food delivery application using eat
which we already did.
Now a new payment service has been introduced
since it is critical,
the new application is deployed in its own name space.
So identify the name space.
Okay, so let's do a get pods dash A
and see what that new name space is.
So we have something,
we have a new name space called critical space.
So let's do a get deploy in the critical space.
And we see that we have a web app pay.
So that's, this is the new deployment.
So identify the name space, so that's critical space.
What is the name of the deployment of the new applications?
We just found that out.
It's called web app pay.
You requested to make the new application available at pay.
So identify and implement the best approach
to making this application available on
the ingress controller and test to make sure it's working.
Look into annotations as well.
Okay, so we know that for the app space applications
we have the ingress resource in the app space.
Now we cannot use that resource
to add something in another space.
So what we're going to do is we're gonna create
an ingress resource for this critical space itself.
So, or at least that's the best practice.
It is the best practice is to create,
for different teams who may be having access
to different name spaces to create
their own ingress resource right,
so that should be the approach that we should be using.
So you can assume that maybe, you know
those who are working on this application only has access
to this name space,
but those who are working on the web pay application
only has access to this name space.
And so, you know any ingress related resources
that are created would have to be created
in this name space.
So we'll create a new ingress and then we'll set the path
as we did before, we'll set the backend service.
So let's first find out what
the backend service is to
this web pay.
So it's called pay service.
So just like food service, wear service,
this one's called pay service,
and the deployment is web app pay.
So we want to direct traffic that goes to the path pay
which as of now there won't be anything,
and we want to direct that to this pay service on port.
So remember that the port now is 82 82.
So that should be the port, okay?
So let's do a Kubectl create ingress,
and so we do have
an imperative command for that.
Let's do a dash H to see the format.
So we're going to, you know there are multiple examples
and let's just pick the simplest one, right?
So Kubectl create ingress, the name and then the rule.
And that's basically it.
So let's do that.
So the name, let's see if there's a name given.
So there's no name given here.
So we could, you know, give it any name.
So this is going to be ingress pay maybe,
and then it's in the name space.
Remember that this is all has to be in the critical space.
And then the rule is that anything
that goes to, sorry, pay the path pay,
so that's pay here, would go to the pay service.
That's what we just saw.
And the port is 82 82
and we don't have any certs for now
so let's just get rid of this.
So that's the ingress pay.
And so let's check it out git.ingress
in the critical space,
and we see that is indeed created.
Let's take a look at it, ingress
in critical space.
And we see that we have the ingress pay
is gonna catch everything that goes to pay
and then redirect that to pay service, right?
So let's go and try it out here.
But you see that it's still not,
it's not working as expected,
still here's the 404 error.
So let's take a look at the logs
and find out why.
So if you look at the logs
of this application in the critical space,
we have the web pay service,
so the web app pay pod,
then what we're going to do is we're gonna do a logs
for that pod in the critical space.
And we see that these are the requests that are coming in.
It's coming in as pay, right?
So the thing is, these applications may not have a slash pay
at the end, right?
So it should be without this pay.
So what's happening is when you're calling pay
is just the ingress resource is just forwarding
as is, the URL as is, to this application
and this application does not really have a pay path,
so it should just be just slash right?
So let's do that.
So for that we have to put in the ingress,
the annotations and the rewrite rules.
So if you look at this, right, the watch wear
or even the pay service, they're just available at this
they don't have a slash watch or slash wear at the end.
But with the default rule
that the ingress controller creates,
anything that goes to watch is going
to have watch at the end.
Anything that goes to wear is gonna have wear at the end.
So that's why the error.
So we want to put in this rewrite annotation
to get that removed.
So let's copy that,
and let's edit
the ingress pay
in the, what do you call, space,
should have ingress.
And then, so we've gotta add an annotation here.
So annotations go in metadata section here
and we are gonna say to rewrite target.
So this is basically going to
take that out and take out the pay at the end
and then just put slash there.
So that seems to be set.
Okay so when you refresh it
you can actually see that this is working as expected.
Let's check our work.
That's good.
And yep, we've already gone here and verified
that it's working.
Okay, so that's the end of this lab.

--- Lab - CKA Ingress Networking - 2 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Ingress Networking - 2 (optional) ---

-: Hey, In this video,
we're gonna look at ingress networking,
in a bit more detail.
So we'll, we'll try and deploy an ingress controller.
So, we've deployed two applications,
"explore" and "setup".
So let's check that out.
Set,
headings first.
Let's do pause dash a.
And we have, in the app space we have the video
and there applications.
So,
that is now deploying an ingress controller first.
So create a name space called "ingress space".
So let's, so this is what we are going to do
and the first step is to create this name space
called "ingress space".
So we'll do this one step at a time.
So let's do that first.
Create name space ingress space.
Okay, so that's successful.
Now, the NGINX ingress controller
requires a ConfigMap object.
Create a ConfigMap object in the ingress space.
So, we're just gonna create a ConfigMap object.
So we'll do a Q call, create conflict map in this
and the name should be as given here
and genetic configuration.
And the name space is ingress space.
Okay? So that's done.
So if you can see here, so you've just created these two.
Now the NGINX ingress controller requires
a service account.
So create a service account in the ingress space.
Name, the name
of the service account is ingress service account.
So create service account
and the ingress space.
Okay?
We've created the roles
and rule bindings for the service account.
So let's check that out.
Okay, so
get roles.
So we have the ingress role and bindings
we have the ingress role binding
Let's check out
ingress role
in the ingress space.
So we see that there are a number
of resources that are given access to like the policy
Chris name spaces, and these are the works that
the actions that it can perform.
Okay, let's keep going.
Let us now deploy the ingress controller
create a deployment using the file given.
So there's already a file given called ingress controller
and the, you know, the hard stuff is already there in there.
So you have, it's called
it's gonna be called ingress controller.
The service account name that we created is here.
The container that it uses is here.
The arguments that are passed to it is configured
and there are some environment variables as well
and the port that is exposed.
So these are all done.
There are just, there are some issues.
So let's try and let's try and create a file
from this first, Create a deployment from this file first.
So it looks like there are some issues.
So there's, there's an issue online.
36 looks like a yamo issue.
So let's, let's edit the file and try and fix those.
So let's go to line 36.
So right here we see that, yeah
indeed there's an issue with spacing.
So we'll fix that's,
try to create it again
and we see that namespace, ingress dash not found.
So if you look here
the namespace is not properly specified.
So let's try and edit that
and space.
Okay, so let's try and create ingress controller now.
Let's check out the status
in the ingress space.
And it's in a continuing creating state.
Let's give it some time.
And meanwhile we can check the status of our work.
So yeah, it's, it's completed successfully.
So we have now deployed an ingress controller.
Now the next step is to create a service to
make the ingress make ingress available to external users.
Okay, so the ingress controller is ready.
The next step is to create a service called ingress.
So we're going to do, what we're going to
do is our goal is to expose ingress controller, right?
So the easiest way to do that is
deploy dash n ingress space.
It's called ingress controller.
So we're gonna create a service using the exposed command.
So we're gonna do expose and what do we wanna expose?
We wanna expose the ingress controller deployment.
Let's say deploy an ingress controller
in the ingress names ingress space
Right? And
and also there are some specifications given here.
So the name has to be ingress
so pass in a name called ingress.
So let's check out the,
the help just to get a bit of bit more idea.
So we have the exposed command
and then we have the deployment deployment name.
If you want a name for the service,
you can use dash dash name.
That's what we just did.
Can also specify the port, so the port and the target port.
So we wanna use 80, and the target port is also 80
but the expos command does not allow us to
use the node port option.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna create
the service first, and then we're just gonna go in
and edit the node port.
So that's kind of the easiest way to do that.
So we'll just take these
because that's what we are left with.
So let's clear my screen and we're gonna specify the port.
So the port and the target port are both 80,
okay?
So we're gonna do an export
deploy ingress controller in the ingress space.
We'll name it ingress.
And then we have specified these.
We can also specify the type.
So we'll see dash dash type going to be node port.
That's what's given here.
Then we have specified the port and the target port.
The node port cannot be specified, but we specified this.
So, and the right selector.
So expo should take care of using the right
selector for this, for the deployment.
So let's create that.
So it's created to get, as we see in the ingress space
and it's, it's created, it's a node port.
And if you, if you look here at the port that
the node port that it used is 32 7 41.
That's not what we wanted.
So we'll go and edit the service in the ingress space
edit service called ingress.
And here we can see the details.
The only thing we need to do is change this to 3 0 0 8 0.
This is actually a simpler way to create a service
without having to work with the amo files at all.
So that's gonna be useful in the exam.
Let's check.
Okay, so that's successful.
Now the next step is to create the ingress resource to
make the applications available at where and watch
on the ingress service.
So we're gonna create an ingress service.
So we'll do a kubectl create ingress in the app space.
That's where we wanna, that's where the applications are.
And quickly check help.
So this is, is what we used earlier.
So we're gonna do a create
and then give the name of the ingress rule
and then we'll just use this rule to specify the rules.
So,
the name of the ingress resource would just
be ingress and where, and watch.
And then we'll specify the rules.
We don't need the certificate stuff.
So we'll remove that.
So the rules says where
needs to go to the where service.
And then we have another rule.
Again, we're going to remove this.
And this is for the second one.
So we can have multiple rules like this,
watch.
And there's going to go to the watch service.
So I'm not sure if it's called the where and watch service.
I'm just going to park this for now
and let's check the service names in app space.
And we see that, okay, it's the where service
and it's the video service, not the watch service.
And the ports are 80 80.
So let's edit that.
So the watch is called the video service and Port 80 80.
And the where is called the where service.
And let's get rid of this for now.
Okay? So that's created.
Ingress in the app space,
see that it's created.
Let's do a describe ingress.
Ingress,
just to app space.
And we see that the where is is to the where service
and it's identified the, the endpoint for that.
And the watch is to the video service.
And it's identified the endpoints to that.
So let's, let's test it out and see if it's working.
So
let's do a where,
Okay, so it isn't working.
Let's do a watch.
Okay, so let's go and check
out the logs on this applications.
So let's do logs.
Check this out.
And as you can see, the requests aren't even reaching here.
Let's check the other service, right?
So if the requests were coming in
you'd actually see the request coming in.
So the requests aren't hitting, hitting this.
So that's one thing, and let's try and figure out why.
So let's do,
let's look
at the logs of the ingress controller itself.
And the ingress controller
as we know is in the ingress space
just do a logs of this ingress controller,
okay?
And if you look here, there seems to be a lot of logs.
So app space.
So it's definitely hitting the ingress controller
but,
then you see there are three node eights, right?
So the three note eights indicate a redirect, right?
So what's happening is every time we're going here
as you can see the, the browser here
it just keeps redirecting.
So it, it looks like it's going into a too,
and you can see the error here.
So it's going into too many redirects.
So, and that is mainly because it is just
trying to do a redirect on the SSL, right?
So for https, it's trying to do a redirect on https.
So what we need to do is we need to
edit the Ingress service.
Yeah. So here's Ingress service.
We need to edit it
in the app space
to provide in Chris.
And then we need to add the annotations,
so the annotations
for
the rewrite target, because as we discussed earlier
we don't want it to go to a where and watch URL.
And then this is, so to prevent the redirect SSL redirect
we have to add the false, the SSL redirect to false.
So let's, let's edit that and let's try this again.
Okay? So that's, that seems to do the trick.
And it's actually working now.
Okay, let's check our work.
And we've already accessed the application.
Okay? So that's, that's the end of this lab.

--- Introduction to Gateway API (2025 updates) ---

Let's now look at an introduction to gateway API.
Earlier when we spoke about ingress, we spoke about two services sharing the same ingress resource.
What if each service was managed by different teams or even completely different organizations or businesses?
What if the web service was managed by team A and the video service was managed by team B?
In such case, the underlying ingress resource is still a single resource, which can only be managed
by one team at a time.
So in a multi-tenant environment, ingress can pose a challenge.
They would need to coordinate between handling the same ingress resource and might lead to conflicts.
Ingress lacks sufficient support for multi-tenancy.
Another limitation are the options for rules.
Configuration.
Ingress only supports HTTP based rules such as host matching or path matching.
Others like TCP, UDP routing.
Traffic splitting, header manipulation, authentication, rate limiting, and others aren't currently
supported.
These are all configured by the controllers, and these configurations are passed through to the controllers
using annotations like this.
So here you can see some nginx configurations pass through such as SSL redirect, etc. as such, you'll
see real complex annotations specified in different ingress rules such as to configure course.
We have some nginx specification configuration here.
And in the second example we're using traffic controller.
And so we have some traffic related configuration here.
The challenge here as you can see, is that these configurations are very specific to the underlying
controllers nginx and traffic respectively.
And Kubernetes itself is not aware of these settings.
So it can't validate if they are right or wrong.
These configuration are merely passed to the underlying controllers.
So we have different configurations for different controllers for the same use case.
And these configurations can now only be used with these specific controllers.
And that's where gateway APIs come in.
Gateway API is an official Kubernetes project focused on layer four and layer seven routing.
This project represents the next generation of Kubernetes ingress, load balancing, and Service Mesh
APIs.
Now, one of the challenges we discussed with ingress was the lack of support for multi-tenancy.
So we discussed that with different teams accessing the same infrastructure.
How do you provide the flexibility needed by the users while maintaining control by the owners of the
infrastructure?
This is where gateway API introduces three separate objects that are managed by three separate personas.
The infrastructure providers configure the gateway class.
The gateway class defines what the underlying network infrastructure would be, such as the nginx traffic
or other load balancers.
The cluster operators would then configure the gateway, which are instances of the gateway class.
And then we have the HTTP routes created by the application developers.
Now unlike ingress where we only had HTTP routes, here we have TCP route and gRPC route and others.
So let's look at how each of these are created.
First we have the gateway class.
It has the API gateway networking I o v1.
The gateway class.
The name is example class and the controller name is Gateway Controller.
Now remember that like ingress, we must also deploy a controller for gateway.
We will talk about that in a bit.
But note that that name is what you put here under controller name.
Next we have gateway object.
It has the API version set to gateway network I o v1.
Kind is gateway, name is example gateway and it has the gateway class specified, which is the gateway
class we created above.
And then we have the HTTP listeners configured with the HTTP and port 80 And finally we have the escape
route rule, which is again gateway networking.io v1 as the API version kind is HTTP route name is example
HTTP route is the example gateway we defined.
It matches requests coming in with the hostname or example.com, and a rule is configured that has a
path login and the back end service.
It refers to is the example service which is the service on the cluster.
In this example, the HTTP traffic from gateway example gateway with the host header set to w-w-w-what
example.com and the request path specified as login will be routed to the service.
Example svc on port 8080.
So the HTTP route that we saw is a layer seven protocol.
Some of the additional route options available are TLS route, TCP route, UDP route, gRPC route,
etc..
So back to a few limitations that we saw with ingress.
Let's see how those are configured in gateway API.
So earlier we saw that with ingress the basic TLS configuration um goes in the TLS section right here.
And then this is the ingress way.
But to ensure all traffic uses Https well we want to redirect http to https.
We need to use the nginx specific annotation.
So these annotations won't work with other ingress controllers.
So the gateway API approach is much more declarative and structured.
Everything is defined in the proper spec, no annotations needed.
The listeners section clearly shows we are setting up an Https endpoint on port 403.
The TLS configuration is explicit with the mod terminate showing we are terminating TLS at the gateway.
The certificate refs directly reference our TLS secret allowed routes.
Specifies which kinds of routes can attach to this listener, in this case HTTP routes.
Here's another example.
Through nginx specific annotations, we're saying, hey, this is um, a Canary deployment and, uh,
send 20% of the traffic here.
The remaining 80% of traffic automatically goes to the primary ingress, which is another ingress service
that may exist.
But this isn't obvious from looking at this configuration alone, and it only works with nginx.
Other controllers might not understand these annotations because these are specific to nginx.
So the gateway API tells the complete story in one clear configuration, so everything is visible in
one place, no hidden primary configuration needed.
We can see both services app v1 and v2 right there in the backend refs section.
The traffic split is explicitly defined 80% goes to v1, 20% goes to v2.
No annotations needed.
This is a native feature, so this will work the same way across any gateway API implementation.
Now these configurations work with any controller and these are not specific to ingress or anything.
Here's just another example.
So earlier we saw the complex controller specific annotations needed for advanced configurations like
course setting.
Now with GitHub API we can configure these centrally.
No annotations needed.
Everything is defined in this spec.
Course headers are explicitly defined using the response header modifier filter.
The configuration is more readable and self-documenting.
And this will work consistently across any gateway API implementation.
So speaking about gateway API implementation, most controllers have now implemented gateway API or
are on the way to implement it.
Amazon Ex Azure Application gateway for containers.
Contour.
Egress.
Envoy gateway.
Google Kubernetes engine HAProxy.
Kubernetes.
Ingress controller.
Istio.
Nginx.
Gateway.
Fabric.
Traffic proxy are already GA with the implementation and others are on their way.
Well, that's all for this lecture.
Head over to the labs and practice working with gateway API controllers.

--- Practical Guide to Gateway API (2025 Updates) ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- (2025 Updates) Lab - Gateway API (2025 Updates) ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Design a Kubernetes Cluster ---

In this lecture we will discuss about designing a Kubernetes cluster.
Before you head into designing a cluster, you must ask the following questions.
What is the purpose of this cluster?
Is it for learning or development or testing purpose or for hosting production grade applications?
What is the cloud adoption at your organization?
Do you prefer your platform to be managed by a cloud provider or a self-hosted?
What kind of workloads are you going to run on this cluster?
How many applications are to be hosted on the cluster?
Few or many?
What kind of applications are going to be hosted on the cluster?
Web applications or big data or analytics?
Depending on the kind of application, the resource requirements may vary.
What type of network traffic are these applications expecting?
Continuous heavy traffic or burst?
Well, let's try and break down some of these.
If you want to deploy a cluster for learning purposes, then a solution based on minikube or a single
node cluster deployed using kube ADM on local VMs or cloud providers like GCP or AWS should do.
We have deployed such a cluster in the beginner's course to deploy a cluster for development and testing
purposes.
A multi-node cluster with a single master and multiple worker nodes would help again.
Kubeadm is an appropriate tool.
Or if on managed cloud environments, then quickly provision a cluster using the Google Container Engine
on GCP or AWS or AKS on Azure.
Let's talk about production level clusters for hosting production grade applications.
A highly available multi-node cluster with multiple master nodes is recommended.
We look at more details about high availability setup with multiple master nodes later in this section.
Again, this can be set up with Kube, ADM or GCP or using Kops on AWS or other supported platforms.
You can have up to 5000 nodes in the cluster.
A total of 150,000 pods in the cluster.
300,000 containers in total and up to 100 pods per node.
Now, depending on the size of your cluster, the resource requirement of your node varies.
Cloud service providers like GCP and AWS automatically selects the right sized nodes for you based on
the number of nodes in the cluster.
This table shows the size of the instances and their resource specifications for specific number of
nodes.
If you're deploying on prem nodes, then you could probably start with these numbers as base.
Cloud or on prem.
We've already discussed that all of these deployment options are available in any environment for on
prem.
Kube admin is a very useful tool.
Google Container Engine makes provisioning Kubernetes clusters on GCP very easy.
It comes with a one click cluster upgrade feature that makes it very easy to maintain the cluster.
Kops is a nice tool to deploy Kubernetes cluster on AWS, and the Azure Kubernetes Service, or AKS,
helps in managing the hosted Kubernetes environment on Azure.
Depending on the workloads configured, your node and disk configurations will differ.
For high performance workloads, rely on SSD backed storage for multiple concurrent Current access.
Consider network based storage for shared access to volumes across multiple pods.
Consider persistent storage volumes that we discussed in the storage section.
Consider defining different classes of storage and allocating the right class to the right applications.
The nodes forming a Kubernetes cluster can be physical or virtual.
In our case, we will be deploying virtual machines on VirtualBox environments as nodes of our cluster.
You may choose to deploy on physical machines or virtual machines, or cloud environments like GCP,
AWS, Azure, or any other platform of your choice.
We will be building a cluster with three nodes, one master and two worker nodes.
Now we know that master nodes are for hosting control plane components like the cube API server, etcd
server and others, while worker nodes are for hosting workloads.
However, this is not a strict requirement.
The master nodes are also considered as nodes and can host workloads.
As a best practice, it is recommended to dedicate master nodes for control plane components only,
especially in a production environment.
Deployment tools like kube ADM prevent workloads from being hosted on master nodes by adding a taint
to the master node.
You must use 64 bit Linux operating system for nodes.
Another thing to note is that typically you have all the control plane components on the master nodes.
However, in large clusters, you may choose to separate the etcd clusters from the master node to its
own cluster nodes.
We will discuss more about the different topologies for that in the upcoming lecture when we talk about
high availability setup.
Well, those are some of the considerations for designing a Kubernetes cluster.
Refer to the links in the references section for more details and some interesting reads.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Before you go from a certification exam standpoint, there's really nothing much you need to remember
from this section.
You don't have to memorize the numbers that we discussed as these are available in the documentation
page.
Well, we'll get into more interesting topics in the upcoming lectures in this section where we will
provision an actual cluster from scratch by ourselves.
Well that's it for this lecture.
I'll see you in the next lecture.

--- Choosing Kubernetes Infrastructure ---

In the previous lecture, we discussed about the various options we have in deploying a Kubernetes cluster.
Let's look at it in a bit more detail here.
Kubernetes can be deployed on various systems in different ways, starting with your laptops to physical
or virtual servers within your organization, as well as those in the cloud.
Depending on your requirements, your cloud ecosystem, and the kind of applications you wish to deploy.
You may choose one of these solutions on a laptop or a local machine.
There are a number of ways to get started.
First of all, on a supported Linux machine, you can get started with installing the binaries manually
and setting up a local cluster.
However, that is too tedious, especially if you are just getting started.
So relying on a solution that automates all that will help in setting up a cluster in a matter of minutes.
We will look at some of those solutions in a bit.
On windows, on the other hand, you cannot set up Kubernetes natively as there are no windows binaries.
You must rely on a virtualization software like Hyper-V or VMware workstation or VirtualBox to create
Linux VMs on which you can run Kubernetes.
There are also solutions available to run Kubernetes components as Docker containers on windows VMs.
But remember, even then, the Docker images are Linux based and under the hoods they run on a Linux
OS created by Hyper-V for running Linux Docker containers.
So what are some of the solutions available to easily get started with Kubernetes on a local machine,
minikube deploys a single node cluster easily.
It relies on one of the virtualization software, like Oracle VirtualBox, to create virtual machines
that run the Kubernetes cluster components.
We have seen this in the beginner's course.
The kube ADM tool can be used to deploy a single node or a multi-node cluster real quick.
But for this you must provision the required hosts with supported configuration yourself.
So the difference between the first two and kube adm is that the first two provisions of VM were supported
configuration by itself, whereas kube ADM expects the VMs provisioned already.
At the same time, it allows for deploying multi-node clusters, whereas the former doesn't.
Again, deploying a Kubernetes cluster locally on a laptop is usually for learning, testing and development
purposes.
For production purposes.
There are many ways to get started with a Kubernetes cluster, both in a private or a public cloud environment.
I would categorize them as turnkey solutions or hosted or managed solutions.
Turnkey solutions are where you provision the required VMs and use some kind of tools or scripts to
configure Kubernetes cluster on them.
At the end of the day, you are responsible for maintaining those VMs and patching them and upgrading
them, etc. but cluster management and maintenance are mostly made easy using these tools and scripts.
For example, deploying a Kubernetes cluster on AWS using the Cops tool.
Hosted solutions are more like Kubernetes as a service solution where the cluster, along with the required
VMs, are deployed by the provider and Kubernetes is configured by them by the provider.
The VMs are maintained by the provider.
For example, Google Kubernetes Engine lets you deploy a Kubernetes cluster in a matter of minutes without
you having to perform any configuration by yourself.
Let us look at some of the turnkey solutions.
OpenShift is a popular on prem Kubernetes platform by Red hat.
For those of you who may not be familiar, OpenShift is an open source container application platform
and is built on top of Kubernetes.
It provides a set of additional tools and a nice GUI to create and manage Kubernetes constructs, and
easily integrate with CI, CD pipelines, etc..
We have an OpenShift for beginners course in our catalog.
Check it out if you're interested.
Cloud Foundry Container Runtime is an open source project from Cloud Foundry that helps in deploying
and managing highly available Kubernetes clusters using their open source tool called Bosh.
If you wish to leverage your existing VMware environment for Kubernetes, then the VMware cloud PXE
solution is one that should be evaluated.
Vagrant provides a set of useful scripts to deploy a Kubernetes cluster on different cloud service providers.
All of these solutions makes it easy to deploy and manage a Kubernetes cluster privately within your
organization.
You must have a few virtual machines with supported configurations in place.
These are a few of the many Kubernetes certified solutions.
Well, there are many more, so check them out in the Kubernetes documentation page.
Let us look at some of the hosted solutions.
Google Kubernetes Engine is a very popular Kubernetes as a service offering on Google Cloud Platform.
OpenShift online is an offering from Red hat where you gain access to a fully functional Kubernetes
cluster online.
Azure has the Azure Kubernetes Service.
And finally, Amazon Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes is Amazon's hosted Kubernetes offering.
Again, these are just some of the solutions.
There are many more.
So what is our choice?
In our case, since this is for learning purposes, and considering the fact that some of you may not
have access to a public cloud account, and since most of you mentioned in the poll we sent out that
you prefer a local setup with VirtualBox, we chose to deploy a local Kubernetes cluster from scratch
on our local system by creating several virtual machines on VirtualBox.
So our design now has three nodes one master, two worker to be deployed on a laptop with virtual machines
provisioned on VirtualBox.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Check out the reference page to read more about many more such solutions.

--- Configure High Availability ---

We now look at high availability in Kubernetes.
So what happens when you lose the master node in your cluster?
As long as the workers are up and continuous are alive, your applications are still running.
Users can access the application until things start to fail.
For example, a container or pod on the worker node crashes.
Now, if that pod was part of a replica set, then the replication controller on the master needs to
instruct the worker to load a new pod.
But the master is not available and so are the controllers and schedulers on the master.
There is no one to recreate the pod and no one to schedule it on nodes.
Similarly, since the kube API server is not available, you cannot access the cluster externally through
kube control tool or through API for management purposes, which is why you must consider multiple master
nodes in a high availability configuration in your production environment.
A high availability configuration is where you have redundancy across every component in the cluster,
so as to avoid a single point of failure.
The master nodes.
The worker nodes.
The control plane components.
The application, of course, which we already have multiple copies in the form of replica sets and
services.
So our focus in this lecture is going to be on the master and control plane components.
Let's take a better look at how it works.
We've been looking at a three node cluster with one master and two worker nodes throughout this course.
In this lecture we will focus on just the master node.
As we learned already, the master node hosts the control plane components, including the API controller,
manager, scheduler and etcd server in a setup with an additional master node.
You have the same components running on the new master as well.
So how does that work?
Running multiple instances of the same components?
Are they going to do the same thing twice?
How do they share the work among themselves?
Well, that differs based on what they do.
Now we know that the API server is responsible for receiving requests and processing them or providing
information about the cluster.
They work on one request at a time.
So the API servers on all cluster nodes can be alive and running at the same time in an active active
mode.
So far in this course, we know that the kube control utility talks to the API server to get things
done, and we point the kube control utility to reach the master node at port 643.
That's where the API server listens.
And this is configured in the kube config file.
Well now with two masters where do we point the kube control to.
We can send the request to either one of them.
But we shouldn't be sending the same request to both of them.
So it is better to have a load balancer of some kind configured in the front of the master nodes that
split traffic between the API servers.
So we then point the kube control utility to that load balancer.
You may use nginx or HAProxy or any other load balancer for this purpose.
What about the scheduler and the controller manager.
These are controllers that watch the state of the cluster and take actions.
For example, the controller manager consists of controllers like the replication controller that is
constantly watching the state of pots and taking necessary actions like creating a new pot when one
fails, etc..
If multiple instances of these run in parallel, then they might duplicate actions resulting in more
pots than actually needed.
The same is true with scheduler.
As such, they must not run in parallel.
They run in an active standby mode.
So then who decides which among the two is active and which is passive?
This is achieved through a leader election process.
So how does that work?
Let's look at controller manager for instance.
When a controller manager process is configured, you may specify the leader elect option, which is
by default set to true.
With this option, when the controller manager process starts, it tries to gain a lease or a lock on
an endpoint object in Kubernetes named as Kube Controller Manager endpoint.
Whichever process first updates the endpoint with its information, gains the lease, and becomes the
active of the two.
The other becomes passive.
It holds the lock for the lease duration specified using the lease duration option, which is by default
set to 15 seconds.
The active process then renews the lease every 10s, which is the default value for the option.
Leader elect.
Renew deadline.
Both the processes try to become the leader every two seconds set by the leader elect retry period option.
That way, if one process fails, maybe because the first master crashes, then the second process can
acquire the lock and become the leader.
The scheduler follows a similar approach and has the same command line options.
Next up etcd.
We discussed about etcd earlier in this course.
It's a good idea to go through that again.
Now, just to quickly refresh your memory as we're going to discuss some more related topics to how
etcd works.
In this lecture with etcd, There are two topologies that you can configure in Kubernetes.
One is as it looks here, and the same architecture that we've been following throughout this course
where etcd is part of the Kubernetes master nodes.
It's called as a stacked control plane nodes topology.
This is easier to set up and easier to manage and requires fewer nodes.
But if one node goes down, both an etcd member and the control plane instances are lost and redundancy
is compromised.
The other is where etcd is separated from the control plane nodes and run on its own set of servers.
This is a topology with external etcd servers compared to the previous topology.
This is less risky, as a failed control plane node does not impact the etcd cluster and the data it
stores.
However, it is harder to set up and requires twice the number of servers for the external etcd nodes.
So remember, the API server is the only component that talks to the etcd server.
And if you look into the API service configuration options, we have a set of options specifying where
the etcd server is.
So regardless of the topology we use and wherever we configure etcd servers, whether on the same server
or on a separate server, ultimately we need to make sure that the API server is pointing to the right
address of the etcd servers.
Now remember etcd is a distributed system, so the API server or any other component that wishes to
talk to it can reach etcd server at any of its instances.
You can read and write data to any of the available etcd server instances.
This is why we specify a list of etcd servers in the kube API server configuration.
In the next lecture, we discuss more about how etcd server works in a cluster setup and the best practices
around the number of recommended nodes in a cluster.
So back to our design.
We had originally planned for a single master node in our cluster.
Now with Ha, we decided to configure multiple masters.
We also mentioned about a load balancer for the API server, so we will have that as well.
So we now have a total of five nodes in our cluster.

--- ETCD in HA ---

In this lecture we will talk about etcd in a high availability setup.
So this is really a prerequisite lecture for the next lecture where we talk about configuring Kubernetes
in a highly available mode.
Well one portion of that deals with configuring etcd in a Ha mode.
So in this lecture we will discuss about etcd in Ha mode.
So in the beginning of this course we took a quick look at etcd.
We will now recap real quick and more importantly focus on the cluster configuration on etcd.
So let's recap real quick and look at the number of nodes in the cluster, what raft protocol is, etc..
So what is STD?
It's a distributed, reliable key value store that is simple, secure and fast.
So let's break it up.
Traditionally, data was organized and stored in tables like this.
For example, to store details about a number of individuals.
A key value store stores information in the form of documents or pages.
So each individual gets a document and all information about that individual is stored within that file.
These files can be in any format or structure, and changes to one file does not affect the others.
In this case, the working individuals can have their files with salary fields.
While you could store and retrieve simple key and values.
When your data gets complex, you typically end up transacting in data formats like JSON or YAML.
So that's what etcd is and how you quickly get started with it.
We also said that etcd is distributed.
So what does that mean.
And that is what we're going to focus in this lecture.
We had etcd on a single server but it's a database and maybe storing critical data.
So it is possible to have your data store across multiple servers.
Now you have three servers, all running etcd and all maintaining an identical copy of the database.
So if you lose one, you still have two copies of your data.
Perfect.
But how does it ensure the data on all the nodes are consistent?
You can write to any instance and read your data from any instance.
Etcd ensures that the same consistent copy of the data is available on all instances at the same time.
So how does it do that with reads is easy since the same data is available across all nodes.
You can easily read it from any node, but that is not the case with writes.
What if two write requests come in on two different instances?
Which one goes through?
For example, I have writes coming in for the name set to John on one and with the name Joe on the other.
Of course, we cannot have two different data on two different nodes.
When I said SSHd can write through any instance, I wasn't 100% right.
Etcd does not process the writes on each node.
Instead, only one of the instances is responsible for processing the rights internally.
The two nodes elect a leader among them.
Of the total instances, one node becomes the leader and the other node becomes the followers.
If the rights came in through the leader node, then the leader processes the right.
The leader makes sure that the other nodes are sent a copy of the data.
If the rights came in through any of the other follower nodes, then they forward the rights to the
leader internally and then the leader processes the rights again.
When the rights are processed, the leader ensures that copies of the rights are distributed to other
instances in the cluster.
Thus, a right is only considered complete if the leader gets consent from the other members in the
cluster.
So how do they elect the leader among themselves, and how do they ensure a right is propagated across
all instances?
Etcd implements distributed consensus using Raft protocol.
Let's see how that works in a three node cluster.
When the cluster is set up, we have three nodes that do not have a leader elected.
Raft algorithm uses random timers for initiating requests.
For example, a random timer is kicked off on the three managers.
The first one to finish the timer sends out a request to the other nodes requesting permission to be
the leader.
The other managers, on receiving the request responds with their vote, and the node assumes the leader
role.
Now that it is elected the leader, it sends out notification at regular intervals to other masters,
informing them that it is continuing to assume the role of the leader in case the other nodes do not
receive a notification from the leader at some point in time, which could either be due to the leader
going down or losing network connectivity, the nodes initiate a re-election process among themselves,
and a new leader is identified.
Going back to our previous example, where a right comes in, it is processed by the leader and is replicated
to other nodes in the cluster.
The right is considered to be complete only once it is replicated to the other instances in the cluster.
We said that the etcd cluster is highly available, so even if we lose a node, it should still function.
Say for example, a new raid comes in, but one of the node is not responding, and hence the leader
is only able to write to two nodes in the cluster.
Is the write considered to be complete?
Does it wait for the third node to be up or does it fail?
A write is considered to be complete if it can be written on the majority of the nodes in the cluster.
For example, in this case of three nodes, the majority is two.
So if the data can be written on two of the nodes, then the write is considered to be complete.
If the third node was to come online, then the data is copied to that as well.
So what is the majority?
Well, a more appropriate term to use would be quorum.
Quorum is the minimum number of nodes that must be available for the cluster to function properly,
or make a successful write in case of three.
We know is two for any given number of nodes, quorum is the total number of nodes divided by two plus
one.
So quorum of three nodes is three by two, which is 1.5 plus one equals 2.5.
If there is a 0.5, consider the whole number only.
So that's two.
Similarly, quorum of five nodes is three.
So here is a table that shows the quorum of clusters of size 1 to 7.
Quorum of three and five are what we calculated.
Quorum of one is one itself, meaning if you have a single node cluster, none of these really apply.
If you lose that node, everything is gone.
If you look at two and apply the same formula, the quorum is two itself, two by two is one and one
plus one is two.
So even if you have two instances in the cluster.
The majority is still two.
If one fails, there is no quorum, so rights won't be processed.
So having two instances is like having one instance.
It doesn't offer you any real value as quorum cannot be met, which is why it is recommended to have
a minimum of three instances in an etcd cluster.
That way it offers a fault tolerance of at least one node.
If you lose one, you can still have quorum and the cluster will continue to function.
So the first column minus the second column gives you the fault tolerance.
The number of nodes that you can afford to lose while keeping the cluster alive.
So we have 1 to 7 nodes here.
One and two are out of consideration.
So from 3 to 7 what do we consider.
As you can see, three and four have the same fault.
Tolerance of one five and six have the same fault tolerance of two.
When deciding on the number of master nodes, it is recommended to select an odd number as highlighted
in the table.
Three or 5 or 7.
Say we have a six node cluster.
Say for example, due to a disruption in the network, it fails and causes the network to partition.
We now have four nodes on one and two on the other.
In this case, the group with four nodes have quorum and continues to operate normally.
However, if the network got partitioned in a different way, resulting in nodes being distributed equally
between the two, each group now has three nodes only, but since we originally had six nodes, the
quorum for the cluster to stay alive is four.
But if you look at the groups here, neither of these groups have four managers to meet the quorum,
so it results in a failed cluster.
So with even number of nodes, there is possibility of the cluster failing during a network segmentation.
In case we had odd number of managers originally say seven, then after the network Segmentation.
We have four on one segmented network and three on the other.
And so our clusters still lives on the group with four managers as it meets the quorum of four.
No matter how the network segments, there are better chances for your cluster to stay alive in case
of network segmentation with odd number of nodes.
So an odd number of nodes is preferred over even number.
Having five is preferred over six, and having more than five nodes is really not necessary, as five
gives you enough fault tolerance to install etcd on a server, download the latest supported binary,
extract it, create the required directory structure, copy over the certificate files generated for
etcd.
We discussed how to generate these certificates in detail in the TLS certificate section.
Then configure the etcd service.
What's important here is to note that the initial cluster option where we pass in the peer's information.
That's how each etcd service knows that it is part of a cluster and where its peers are.
Once installed and configured, use the etcd cuddle utility to store and retrieve data.
Run the etcd cuddle command and specify the key as name and value as John.
To retrieve data, run the etcd cuddle git command with the key name and it returns the value.
John to get all keys from the etcd cuddle.
Get keys.
Only command.
Going back to our design, how many nodes should our cluster have in an Ha environment?
As you can see, having 1 or 2 instances doesn't really make any sense, as losing one node in either
case will leave you without quorum and thus render the cluster non-functional.
Hence, the minimum required nodes in an Ha setup is three.
We also discussed why we prefer odd number of instances over even number.
Having even number of instances can leave the cluster without quorum in certain network partition Scenarios.
So all the even number of nodes is out of scope.
So we are left with three, five and seven or any odd number above that.
Three is a good start, but if you prefer a higher level of fault tolerance, then five is better.
But anything beyond that is just unnecessary.
So considering your environment, the fault tolerance requirements, and the cost that you can bear,
you should be able to choose one number from this list.
In our case we go with three.
So how does our design look now with the minimum required number of nodes for fault tolerance is three.
Now, while it would be great to have three master nodes, we are limited by our capacity of our laptop,
so we will just go with two.
But if you're deploying this setup in another environment and have sufficient capacity, feel free to
go with three.
We also chose to go with the stacked topology, where we will have the etcd servers on the master nodes
itself.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Thank you for listening and I will see you in the next.

--- Important Update: Kubernetes the Hard Way ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Deployment With kubeadm - Introduction ---

In this lecture, we will look at the cube admin tool, which can be used to bootstrap a Kubernetes
cluster.
The cube admin tool helps us set up a multi-node cluster following the Kubernetes best practices.
As we discussed, the Kubernetes cluster consists of various components such as the cube API server,
etcd controllers, etc. and we have seen some of the requirements around security and certificates to
enable communication between these components.
Installing all of these various components individually on different nodes, and modifying the configuration
files to make sure these components point to each other, and setting up certificates to make it work
is a tedious task.
The cube admin tool helps us by taking care of all of those tasks.
Let's go through the steps to set up a Kubernetes cluster using the cube admin tool at a high level.
First, you must have multiple systems or virtual machines provisioned for configuring a cluster.
We will see how to set up your laptop to do just that.
That's if you're not familiar with it.
Once the systems are created, designate one node as master and others as worker nodes.
The next step is to install a container runtime on the hosts.
We will be using container D, so we must install container D on all the nodes.
The next step is to install kube admin tool on all the nodes.
The kube admin tool helps us bootstrap the Kubernetes solution by installing and configuring all the
required components in the right nodes in the right order.
The next step is to initialize the master server.
During this process, all the required components are installed and configured on the master server.
Once the master is initialized and before joining the worker nodes to the master, you must ensure that
the network prerequisites are met.
A normal network connectivity between the systems is not sufficient for this.
Kubernetes requires a special networking solution between the master and worker nodes, which is called
as the pod network.
The last step is to join the worker nodes to the master node, where then all set to launch our application
in the Kubernetes environment.
We will now see a demo of setting up Kubernetes using the Kube admin tool in our local environment.

--- Resources ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Deployment With Kubeadm - Provision VMs With Vagrant ---

Instructor: In this demo,
we will see how to provision VMs for our Kubernetes cluster
that will include a single master node and two worker nodes.
And we're gonna accomplish this
by using two different pieces of software.
The first one is going to be VirtualBox.
so this is our hypervisor
which is ultimately responsible
for running our virtual machines.
And the other tool is going to be Vagrant,
so this is like a automation tool
that makes it really easy to spin up a whole bunch of VMs
with a specific configuration.
So we're gonna make use of Vagrant
so that all of us can kind of follow along
with the exact same configuration for our VMs
and we can get those VMs up and running
with just one single command.
So the prerequisites, obviously, for this video
is you have to install VirtualBox
and you have to install Vagrant.
So if you take a look at VirtualBox,
you could just go to the virtualbox.org
and there's going to be a downloads page,
and you could just select
the specific operating system you're using,
and then you could just follow the steps.
Pretty simple.
And then Vagrant,
if you go to the Vagrant documentation,
they have a walkthrough on how to install Vagrant as well.
Couple of different ways to do that
depending on what your operating system is,
just use whichever is most convenient for you.
Now for Vagrant,
we have a Vagrant file
which is going to contain all of our configurations
for our VMs.
And this file
has already been written out for all of you guys
and you can find that at the repository for the course.
So, go ahead and just clone this repository
so that you can have access to the Vagrant file
and you can use that to spin up the VMs.
And to clone the repository,
all we have to do is go to this code dropdown right here
and just copy the URL of this specific repository.
Then once you do that,
go to your Terminal and run a git clone,
and then pass in the URL,
and that's going to clone the repository.
All right, so I cleared out the Terminal
but after we cloned the repository,
it's going to create a folder with all of those files.
And so, I'm going to cd into that folder.
And within here, if I just do an ls,
you should see the Vagrant file right here.
So let's open up the Vagrant file
and let's take a look at the configuration.
All right, and so, in the configuration,
you could see here we've set it up
to have one master node
and two worker nodes.
The IP address is for the host,
so this has nothing to do with Kubernetes yet.
The IP addresses of the actual VMs or the nodes,
they're going to make use of the 192.168.56 network.
And if you'd like to, you can go ahead and poke around
at the rest of the configuration
but we don't need to worry too much about that.
The great part about Vagrant
is we could just run one command
and get all of our VMs up with the same exact configuration.
So I'm gonna close this out
and I'm going to run a vagrant status.
And so, what this is gonna do
is it's gonna check the status of the VMs.
And for these statuses for the VMs,
we can see that they're all set to not created.
And so, you could see
that we've got the three different VMs here,
kubemaster, which is going to be our master node,
and then the two worker nodes.
And they're all in a not created state
because we actually haven't brought up the VMs.
So let's go ahead and do that now
and we can do that with a vagrant up.
And this is going to provision all three of those VMs
with the exact specifications from the Vagrant file.
And so, what it's going to do
is it's actually going
to pull the Ubuntu Bionic 64 base image.
And then once that image is pulled,
it's able to then provision all of the different VMs.
This part is going to take a decent amount of time
to get all of those VMs up and running,
so we're just gonna have to sit there and wait.
Just understand that it's not a big deal
if it takes a long time,
it's kind of expected.
Okay, so now that it's complete,
if you just take a look at the logs,
you can see it actually goes step by step
and provision the different VMs.
So it first started provisioning the kubemaster,
after it provisioned that,
it then moved down to the kubenode01,
which is the first worker node,
and then it wrapped up by provisioning the kubenode02.
So we've got all three VMs provisioned.
And now if I do a vagrant status,
we could take a look at the status of the VMs now
that they're provisioned.
And we can see that all three nodes are in a running state,
which is exactly what we want.
So now that we've got the three nodes in a running state,
how do we connect to it?
Well, we do this by running the command vagrant ssh
and then the name
of the specific node we want to connect to.
So if I want to connect to kubemaster,
I'm just gonna copy that,
and this is automatically going to connect us
to the kubemaster node.
And so, now you can see,
based off of the command prompt,
you can see we are now in the kubemaster.
And if I just do an ls -la,
we can see that I am in fact in the kubemaster.
So to log out,
or to exit out of the session,
I can just do a logout
and that's going to take me back to my local machine.
And if I once again do a vagrant status,
I can then do a vagrant ssh,
and I'll connect to kubenode01.
And connected to kubenode01,
if I just run an uptime,
we can see that it's been up for three minutes
so we are, in fact, connected to kubenode01.
And then I'll log out of this one
and then we'll just quickly connect to kubenode02.
So I'll do a vagrant ssh kubenode02
and now we're successfully connected onto kubenode02.
So that's how you access all of your VMs.
So we've got all of our VMs provisioned
and we're good to go.
So in the next video,
we're going to actually bootstrap the Kubernetes cluster
using Kubeadm.

--- Demo - Deployment with Kubeadm ---

Okay.
So in this video we're going to be doing a demonstration of bootstrapping a Kubernetes cluster using
the kube ADM tool.
Now I've already provisioned three virtual machines using a tool called vagrant.
And we've got three nodes.
In this case I've got a master node here I've got a worker node which I'll call node one.
Or you'll look for kube node one on the terminal or in the prompt.
And then we've got node two which you'll see is kube node two here.
So we've got one master node and two worker nodes.
And the one thing I want to point out is if you take a look at the IP addresses we've got a couple of
different interfaces.
The main interface that we're going to be using for communication between the cluster is INP zero eight.
So you can see the master node has an IP address of 192.168.56.11.
Node one has 192.168.56.21, and node two has an IP address of 192.168.56.22.
Okay, so that's the interface that we're going to use for all of the communications.
So for deploying a Kubernetes cluster, there's going to be a couple of tabs that we want to get open,
because you're going to see that for the most part the Kubernetes documentation is very good.
So you want this installing kube ADM page right here which is under installing Kubernetes with deployment
tools and then under bootstrapping clusters with kube ADM.
And then you can see all of the different instructions for the different versions.
I'm going to be using version 1.31 which is at the moment the latest version.
And then you also want to open up this tab right here which is creating a cluster with Kube ADM.
You can see it's in the same section.
So you've got installing kube ADM and then two slots down you've got creating a cluster with kube ADM.
And if you're going to be deploying a highly available Kubernetes cluster that's with multiple master
nodes, then you want to select creating highly available clusters with kube ADM.
Now we just have a single master node.
So we're just going to follow this page here.
But if you have more than one go ahead and follow that one.
So let's go to the installing kube ADM.
So this is going to be the tool that we use to actually bootstrap a cluster and it's going to give you
some prerequisites.
So it's just letting you know what are the requirements for your machine.
All of my machines already match those requirements.
So that's not a big deal.
But if you are going to be deploying your own cluster, make sure that it's actually compatible.
And then we're just going to keep scrolling down for a bit.
And we want to see this section right here which is installing a container runtime.
So before we can utilize the kube ADM tool you want to make sure that you install a container runtime.
So we're going to have to do that.
But we're going to come back to that in a second.
Let's first go ahead and at least get the kube ADM tool installed on all of our machines.
And so here if I just keep scrolling down you can see this is where the instructions begin.
So the first thing that we're going to do is download the public signing keys for the Kubernetes package
repositories.
And you can see they've got a different one for each of the different versions.
So if you're going to do version 1.31 you're going to select version one dot 31.
If it's a version one dot 32, then you'll have to replace this with one dot 32.
But I'm going to copy this command, and we're going to paste it on all of our, um, all of our nodes
because we're going to need cube ADM installed on all three of them.
So I'm just going to paste it on all three.
And it looks like my copy broke.
So let me just copy that again.
Then down here we have to add the specific Kubernetes repository.
So this is once again we're just going to copy and paste this.
And I'm going to paste this in all three nodes.
Then the last thing that we have to do is we're going to do a sudo apt update.
And then we have to install the cube ADM package.
You can see here in the command here we're installing Cubelet cube adm cube CTL.
We don't technically need cube CTL and Cubelet at the moment.
We just want cube ADM.
But at some point we're going to need to download cube CTL as well.
So let's go ahead and just install all of them right now.
So I'm just going to copy these three commands.
And then we're going to go ahead and run them on once again all three nodes.
Okay.
So it looks like it's done.
Let's go ahead and take a look at the version of cube ADM that we installed.
So we'll say cube ADM version.
And we can see that we are running major version one minor version 31.
And we can see version 1.31.1.
All right.
So now that we've got cube ADM installed, if we go to the bottom of this page we can see that the next
step is to install our cluster using cube ADM.
So you can go ahead and click on this link.
But I've already got that tab open.
It's the same one as creating a cluster with cube ADM.
So I'm going to go to that page.
And if you take a look at this page it's going to give us, you know, first of all, the prerequisites
for system requirements for any Kubernetes node, which we've already verified.
And then if we go down here, we want to start at the instructions page.
And the first thing that we have to do is we have to install a container runtime.
And we're going to have to install it on all of the nodes.
That's going to be both master and worker nodes.
The reason why is that, you know, obviously the worker nodes will need to have a container runtime
so they can run the containers, but all of the control plane components on our master node will be
run as pods or as containers.
And so since we have containers running, we're going to need a container runtime.
So let's open this tab.
And here it's going to give you the directions on how to utilize one of these supported container runtimes.
I'm going to be using container D for this demonstration.
So if you're going to follow along go ahead and use container D.
But feel free to use whichever one you'd like.
And we can select container D.
And this is going to give us some information onto as to some of the things that you'll need to configure
for container D.
So now let's install our container runtime.
And for the directions on that, just go ahead and just search for install and then the name of the
runtime.
And then that's going to take you to the documentation for container D.
And you can just follow these directions.
We're just going to use use the app repository to install system D.
So here I'm just going to do a sudo apt update and then a sudo apt install dash y container d.
And that's going to install container d.
And I'm going to do this on every node.
Now after we install our container runtime the next thing that we have to do is take a look at this
important section in the documentation, which is cgroup drivers.
Now, if you guys aren't familiar with Cgroups.
Cgroups is the Linux feature, the Linux primitive that allows whether you're working with Docker or
Kubernetes, it allows you to specify resource limits on your containers.
So if you want to say this container can only use 512MB of Ram, it's using the Cgroups under the hood.
Now, when you configure the Kubelet process and when you configure the the runtime, which in our case
is container D, there's two different drivers that are available.
You have cgroup FS which is the default, and then you have system D.
Now you can use whichever one you'd like, but you have to make sure that whichever one you select,
both the Kubelet and your container runtime are configured to use the same Cgroup driver.
So if the Kubelet is set to Cgroup fs, then the container runtime has to be set to the same thing.
Now if we keep reading, you can see there's a section here that says when system D is chosen as the
init system for your Linux distribution, you want to make sure that you set the Cgroup driver to be
system D.
So let's go ahead and verify what our init system is.
If it's set to system D, then we're going to have to use the system D driver as per the instructions.
So the way that you verify is you do PS dash P and then one.
And if it says system D that means that's what our init system is.
So we'll go ahead and use the system D Cgroup driver.
So first things first let's make sure that we know how to set the cgroup driver to be systemd for the
kubelet process.
Now here it gives you an example on how to do that.
You have to create a kubelet configuration file.
And if you actually want to, you could scroll down a little bit further.
And this will give you more detailed instructions on how to do that with kube adm.
Now the first note is important for us, which is in version 1.22 and later.
If the user does not set the Cgroup driver field under the Kubelet configuration, kube adm will default
to systemd, which is perfect because we are going to be using the.
We want systemd, and since we are using a version later than 1.22, it already defaults to that.
But if you want to see how to actually set it, you're going to create this, um, cluster configuration.
And then here you create the Kubelet configuration.
And you want to set the Cgroup driver property to be systemd.
And then when you run the kube adm init command, you pass the dash dash config flag so that you can
pass in the kube adm config file, which is going to make sure that the kubelet process uses the systemd.
Once again, it's the default for anything later than 1.22.
So we're going to just not pass in that file because we don't need to change anything.
So we don't have to worry about the kubelet process.
But we do have to make sure that the container runtime is set to utilize the Cgroup driver.
So by default it's not going to be using systemd.
So if we go to the top of the container runtime page and we select container D and we scroll down,
this is the directions on how to set the cgroup driver to be systemd.
So we create a file which is going to be the config file for container D which is going to be stored
in slash Etsy slash container D in a file called config.toml.
And then you have to configure this.
So you just got to make sure that this is in there.
And that's going to make sure that the secret driver is set to version two.
All right.
So I'm going to go ahead and create this directory if it hasn't already been made.
So and so I'll go to slash Etsy container D and it looks like I don't have a container d directory.
So I'm going to manually create that.
And so I'll say sudo mkdir p slash Etsy slash container d.
And I'm going to copy this.
And we're going to run this on all three of our nodes.
And so then at this point we're going to have to generate the configs.
Now the container D process allows us to generate default configuration.
So if you don't specify a config file it's going to use these default configurations.
And you can actually take a look at these configurations by running the command container D config default.
And it's going to spit out the default configuration.
So if we don't provide a file it's going to look like this.
So I'm going to use this command to generate the configs.
And then we're going to make the necessary changes as per the documentation.
Now I've got this nice command right here.
And I'm going to show you guys what this command does.
But I'm going to paste this command here.
And if we take a look at it it's going to run that same command.
And then in the output it's going to pipe it into said.
And what it's going to do is it's going to change where it says systemd group set to false, and it's
going to change it to systemd group equals true.
And then we're going to then send it to a file in slash Etsy slash containerd slash config.toml.
And that's going to be as per the directions.
Right.
It's got to be in that file.
And we got to have that config.
And so all it's doing is it's going to change this from false which is the default configuration.
It's going to change it to true.
So I'll run that and I'm going to hit up and I'm going to take this and I'm going to pipe it I'm going
to paste it in the other two nodes.
And so now if I cat that file.
So it's going to be containerd um slash config.toml.
And I'm going to grep for.
System D Cgroup just to see if that command actually said it.
And I'm going to pass in one extra flag, which is, um, I'm printing out a whole bunch of lines before
it just so I can make sure it's in the right section.
And so you can see here systemd.
Cgroup equals true.
And we have it's under this config section which is the container runtimes dot run c dot options.
And so if we take a look at the documentation right that's going to be this line right here.
So that did properly set it.
And so now the last thing that we need to do is after we make some config changes we have to make sure
that we restart container D.
And we can just run the systemctl command to restart container D.
And that's not what I wanted.
So restart container D restart on this one.
And looks like I never ran this command on here.
So let me run it real quick and then restart container D All right.
Perfect.
So now what we're going to do is we're going to go back to creating a cluster with cube ADM.
That's this document here.
And we're going to take a look at what are the next steps.
So we've got the container runtime installed.
We've made sure that the proper Cgroup driver has been set.
And we want to just keep scrolling down and keep going.
And here we want to look for initializing control plane node.
So the the first instance, the first node in Kubernetes that we're going to actually initialize is
going to be the control plane node.
Now in this case once again we have just a single master node.
And so we're just going to run the command on there.
If you have multiple master nodes then you're going to have to pick one that you want to run the command
first.
Now there's going to be some important instructions that you want to follow here.
And if you take a look at step one, is that if you have plans to upgrade a single control plane node
to a high available cluster with multiple control plane nodes, you want to make sure you pass in the
dash dash control plane dash endpoint and set it to be some virtual IP.
So this could be some load balancer and then have it sent to your single instance.
That way when you migrate over, you don't really have to change anything for the most part, and you've
already got the load balancer set up to forward it.
So if you have plans to do that, you want to make sure you set this to whatever IP you want to use
for your API server.
We're not going to do that.
We're we're just going to run this as a single control plane.
Note that we don't have to pass that flag in.
The other thing they have to do is you have to choose a, um, you have to make sure you specify whatever
pod subnet you're going to utilize.
So the dash dash pod network Cidr is going to be the subnet that the IP addresses for your pods are
actually going to pull from.
So you set it to be 10.0.0.0 slash 16.
Then all of your pods are going to get an IP address from that 10.0.0.0 slash 16 subnet.
So we're going to pass in that flag.
So and I'll show you guys what that looks like.
Um and then on top of that kube ADM tries to detect the container runtimes by using a list of well-known
endpoints.
So if you actually go here under the container runtime page.
This is going to just quickly show you, I think somewhere in this document, what are the default locations
to look for?
Uh, let me see if I can find it here.
And I don't think it's here actually it might be under installing kube adm.
And I'm going to just scroll down here.
Here we go.
So these are going to be the paths to um you know the, the way that, that each one of these container
runtimes are set to be configured.
And these are usually the default ones.
This is just saying that if for some reason it was not one of the default ones, you have to pass in
the dash dash CRE, dash socket and then pass in the path to that socket, but it automatically detects
it.
So we don't need to actually pass in that flag.
Now, the last thing that we are going to cover when it comes to the flags for the kube ADM utility
is the dash dash API server advertise address.
So when you're working with a single control plane node cluster, we're going to use this one to tell
the cluster what IP address is going to be for your cube API server.
So this will set this to be the IP address of our master node.
And if I go back and I go to my master node and I do an iPad, we're going to pass in that flag and
we're going to set it to be the IP address of the master node, which is 192.168.56.11.
So whatever IP address your other nodes will want to talk to your master node through.
You can see I've got another interface.
I don't want to use this one.
This is this is like an internal interface used by vagrant which I use to spin up my cluster.
So this is kind of like a irrelevant interface.
So that's why I'm going to pass in that flag to make sure that it picks the right interface.
So we're now officially ready to run the cube adm init command.
And we're going to run it on the master node.
And I'm going to show you the full command here.
And so this is what the command is going to look like.
We do pseudo cube ADM init.
Then once again we're going to pass in the Dash Dash API server advertise address.
It's going to be whatever the IP address of our master node is.
Then we're going to specify the pod network Cidr.
So remember this is going to be the subnet that all of your pods are going to pull an IP address from.
So all of my pods are going to be in the 10.244.0.0 slash 16 subnet.
And then we have the upload cert.
So this is going to make sure that we upload all of the certificates to a secret, so that all of the
other nodes will have access to the certificates.
And at that point we can go ahead and hit run.
And it's going to run all of the necessary checks beforehand.
And then after it's done, then it's going to set up and initialize our control plane node.
All right.
So it finished initializing our master node.
And I want to just kind of quickly go over some of the output.
So if we take a look here we can see that it's generating the CA certificates.
And then it's going to go ahead and generate the certificates for the API server.
And then you can see it's configuring that.
It also generated all the certificates for the etcd server and all of the other different components
that you can see.
just go one by one, creating all the necessary things for each of the different components.
You could see the conf file for your cubelet.
You could see the controller manager configuration, and then it went ahead and provisioned.
The static pod manifests for the different components and you can see it then brought up the different
components.
And so that's really all it's doing under the hood.
If you just take a look at the output, it just explains the step by step exactly what it's doing.
And then after it's done, it's going to have provisioned a config file so that we can actually connect
to our Kubernetes cluster.
And then if we want to just take a look at it, we could just do a cat and then just go to that path
of that file.
So it's going to be Kubernetes admin conf.
And I'll need a sudo.
And you can see here it's got a kube config file so that we can actually talk to our master node.
So here we're going to just copy it to the default home directory in this case.
And I'm going to paste that in.
And now I should be able to do a kubectl.
And then here if I do get nodes, it should be able to connect and give back all of the nodes.
You can see we've got one node and it's currently in a not ready state.
That's not a problem.
We expect it to be in a not ready state because we haven't set up the the network plugin that we're
going to use.
So we have to get the network plugin up and running.
And then this will move into a ready status.
Now if I go back up to the output of the cube adm init command, it's going to tell us what we have
to do next.
And so you know I already did this section right here.
And then what we need to do is you need to deploy a pod network for your cluster.
That's basically your network CNI, your network plugin or your CNI.
And then afterwards it says you can then join any number of worker nodes by running the following command
on the worker nodes.
So setting up the worker nodes is very easy.
You just run this command.
So I'm going to copy this and save this to my notepad so that I have it for reference that we could
use later on.
Um, and then that's all we have to do.
Now, if I go to the documentation and we take a look at, uh, creating a high availability cluster.
And I'm going to just show you what the output would look like if we were using a setup with multiple
master nodes.
When we do a cube adm init, you're going to see an output that looks like this.
So ours right.
If you look at this and I wish it was a little bit wider, you can see you could join any number of
worker nodes.
So we saw the same thing.
However when you're doing a multi master node you can also it'll print out the the command that you
need to run with the proper token for setting up all of the other control plane nodes.
So at this point, if you had multiple master nodes, you would run this command that it gave us right
here, so that you can then bootstrap the other control plane nodes and connect them to the cluster.
We only have one control plane node.
So we didn't get that output.
And that's exactly what we want.
We only have to set up the worker nodes here.
I just wanted to make sure you guys understand how to do it.
If you did have multiple control plane nodes.
All right.
So I'm back at the creating a cluster with cube ADM documentation.
We can see that we ran the cube adm init command.
We saw this output.
So we know how to get the worker node to join.
If we take a look at the directions, it's going to tell us to install a pod network add on.
So we have to install our CNI plugin.
And we can refer to this documentation if we want to see the different add ons.
And so here's a list of the different add ons that we can utilize.
I'm going to use in this case flannel.
So we're going to go to flannel.
Select that one.
And it's going to take us to the documentation page for flannel.
I'm going to zoom in a little bit for you guys.
And you're going to see that usually it's pretty easy to deploy a network plugin.
Usually they give you a um, basically a Kubernetes manifest to actually deploy all of the necessary
resources.
And so in this case we have this command right here kubectl apply f and you just pass in that URL and
it's going to deploy it.
And that's really all you have to do.
However if you are using a custom pod Cidr network, which is basically if you're not using the default
ten 244 .0.0 16, you have to first download the above manifest and modify the network to match your
own.
So we are using the default one so we don't have to do that.
But I want to show you guys where you would change this just so that you guys know exactly what to do.
So we're going to go back.
I'm going to go to my master node and I'm going to do just a curl.
And I'm going to download that file.
I'm going to open that file up.
Let's see where is it.
I'm sorry I didn't mean to do a curl.
I wanted to do a double wget.
So I actually download it.
Okay so we've got the file.
Let's open this up here.
And we take a look at all of the resources it's going to create for us.
We can see it's going to create a namespace a service account a cluster role.
Don't worry too much about those cluster role binding and all of that.
Now this is where we would configure our pod network.
So here you can see it's set to 210 244 .0.0 slash 16.
If you want to change that make sure it just matches up with whatever pod Cidr network you configured
when you ran the Kube cube adm command.
So we use ten 244 .0.0 slash 16.
So we're just going to leave this as the default.
All right.
And so at this point I could just do a cube CTL apply dash f cube flannel.
And it's going to go ahead and deploy the network plugin.
So after it's been deployed we can go ahead and take a look at all the resources it created.
So I'm going to do a kubectl get pods dash n.
Let's check the kube system namespace.
We can see that it didn't deploy anything there.
But I believe it's going to use a namespace called I think it's flannel.
And let's just do a kubectl get namespace because I cube flannel.
So that's the namespace that's using.
All right.
We can see that we've got one pod running.
And so at this point I would assume that everything is up and ready to go.
So if I just do a kubectl get nodes now we can see that the cube Master moved into a ready state because
we successfully deployed the network plugin.
And so now the last thing that we have to do is just get the nodes to join the cluster.
And the way we do that is by utilizing that command I saved, we just copy it and we just say sudo and
then paste it in and then just run that.
And it's going to make sure that this worker node joins the cluster.
And I'll do the same thing here sudo then paste that command in and we can see that the first one already
finished successfully joined the cluster.
And it you know did a few checks.
The Kubelet was informed of a new secure connection details.
So it was able to connect to the API server and everything's good to go.
So now if I go back to the master node and I do a kubectl get node, we can see that we've got our Kubernetes
state and we've got node one and node two in a ready state.
And if I check that kube flannel namespace again you're going to see that we'll have two more pods running.
And so it's going to deploy a instance of the that the network plugin agent on every single one of the
nodes so that it can actually handle network on all of them.
So every time you add a new node it's going to deploy one of these pods onto there.
So that's why you'll see three of them in that case.
So at this point our cluster should be ready to go.
Let's go ahead and test it out I'm going to just deploy a single pod.
So I'll say kubectl run I'll give this pod a name of web and I'll say dash dash image equals.
And I'll just say nginx in this case.
So here we created the pod.
We'll do a kubectl get pod.
And let's take a look.
We can see it's in a container creating state.
And I'm going to do a dash w so we can watch.
It's going to oh it looks like it already moved into a running state.
So we've got in a running state.
So it looks like everything's working.
Everything's good to go.
We could just go ahead and delete that now.
And there you go.
We have now successfully deployed a Kubernetes cluster using the kube adm CLI utility.

--- Lab - Deploy a Kubernetes Cluster using Kubeadm ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Deploy a Kubernetes Cluster using kubeadm : (Optional) ---

Instructor: For the first question,
it's asking us to install kubeadm and the kubelet package
on the control plane, as well as node1.
So we've got the terminal open here
and we can see we're automatically connected to node1.
So I'm gonna open up a second terminal.
The first one's connected to the control plane.
The second one, I'm gonna SSH into node1.
And I've got the documentation right here
for installing kubeadm.
And so the first thing that we have to do
is let's go to the container runtime
and let's set up these forwarding rules first.
So we always have to set these rules up first.
So I'm gonna copy this and we're gonna go back
and we're gonna paste this in both terminals.
So we're gonna set this up on the control plane,
as well as node1.
Now, the next thing that we have to do is install kubeadm
and the kubelet package.
And it's telling us to install this specific version.
So that's something to keep in mind.
So let's go back to the documentation.
And if we scroll down here,
this is gonna give us instructions
on how to set up the kubeadm tool.
And there's gonna be different instructions
based off of which distribution you're using.
So let's verify what distribution we're actually using.
And so we could do that by running, cat /etc/*-release.
Okay, and we could see that this is using Ubuntu
and I'm gonna run this on the control plane node, as well.
Yep, and we could see that this is using Ubuntu as well.
All right, so we're gonna leave this on Debian
and we're gonna just copy this
and I'm gonna paste this into both terminals.
Then, we have to download
the Google Cloud public signing key.
So we'll copy this and we're gonna run this on both nodes.
So when we paste this, we see that we get this error.
It says, curl failed writing body.
This error is a little misleading, but what's happening is,
we're downloading the gpg key
and we're downloading it to this folder /etc/apt/keyrings.
And if we actually go back to the documentation, it says
that in releases older than Debian 12 and Ubuntu 22.04,
this folder doesn't exist.
So you're gonna have to create this yourself.
So let's go ahead and just do a mkdir to create the folder.
So we'll do etc/apt/keyrings,
and we'll run this on both to create that directory.
And after we create it, if we run the same command,
we should see that there's no issues when we run it now.
And then, we'll run it on the node1.
Then, we'll add the Kubernetes apt repository on both nodes.
And then here, we're going to do an update.
Then, we're going to install all of these.
And we're gonna, instead of copying all of this all at once,
I'm gonna do this one by one.
And that's because
this is going to install the latest version.
We don't want the latest version.
The instructions are specifically asking 1.26.0.
So let's do this one by one.
And then, I'm gonna copy this,
but I don't actually wanna run the command.
So we'll do, sudo apt install, we want kubeadm
and then to specify a version, we'll say =,
and then we'll copy this version.
And I'm gonna do a -y here.
So we'll do kubeadm, we want kubelet
and we'll copy this same version.
And then we want kubectl, as well.
And I will copy this command
and we will run this on the other node, as well.
Okay, so that's set up
and then, we'll just copy this last command, as well.
All right, and so that should be everything we need to do
for the first question.
So we'll just validate that.
Okay, so the next question is asking us,
what version of the kubelet is installed.
So we can just run a, kubelet --version
and we already know it's gonna be version 1.26.0.
The next question is asking,
how many nodes are part of the Kubernetes cluster?
So for that, we'll go to the control plane
and run, kubectl get nodes.
We can see that there's an error,
couldn't get current server API group list.
So this error is actually expected
because we actually haven't initialized our cluster yet.
We haven't run the kubeadm tool to actually initialize it.
So that's to be expected.
So go ahead and just select a zero.
Okay, so now,
we're going to bootstrap our Kubernetes cluster
using the kubeadm tool.
And so, we want to initialize the control plane node,
the master node, and we're gonna pass in two flags.
So here, we're gonna set the API server advertise IP address
to be whatever the IP address of ethernet zero is.
And then, we're also going to set the pod network CIDR flag
to be 10.244.0.0/16.
So let's go ahead and get the IP address.
So if we run an, ip add, we can see that for eth0,
the IP address is 192.7.220.6.
So now, we can just do a, kubeadm init,
and then we gotta do, --,
and I'm gonna copy the name of this flag
and we're gonna set it to this IP address.
And then, we'll do a, --pod-network-cidr,
which is gonna be set to 10.244.0.0/16.
And that's going to initialize the control plane.
And I realize there's a typo.
This is just kubeadm, and we'll let that run.
Okay, and once that's complete,
the instructions does say, once done,
set up the default kubeconfig file
and wait for the node to be part of the cluster.
So I'm going to, then,
just copy these instructions right here, paste that,
that's going to set up our kubeconfig.
And so now, we can just do a, kubectl get nodes
and we should see that we've got our one control plane node,
which at the moment is in a NotReady state,
but that's to be expected.
And we'll go ahead and run the verification.
The next question is asking us
to generate a kubeadm join token.
Or you can just copy the one we received
from the kubeadm init command.
And that's gonna be this one right here.
So just go ahead and copy that.
We'll hit OK.
The next question is telling us
to have node1 join the cluster using this join token.
So make sure you copy that, go to node1
and all you have to do is just paste the join token.
We run the validation, we should see it should be good.
And then, we'll go to the next question.
And so for the final question,
we want to install a network plugin.
And in this case,
the instructions are telling us to install flannel.
So we're gonna have to go to the documentation
to figure out how to do that.
And if you go back to the output
of the kubeadm init command,
it's gonna give us a link where we can take a look
at all of the network addons.
So we'll just hit control and then click.
That's gonna open up a tab.
In here, there's gonna be all of the network addons.
So look for, what was it, flannel.
So we wanna select flannel
and it's gonna take us to this link.
And you'll see that deploying flannel is very easy.
It's just one command.
So we can just copy this,
go to our control plane, hit paste
and it's going to create
all of the necessary configurations
to get flannel up and running.
We'll go ahead and hit Check
and we'll probably need to give it a couple seconds
to actually initialize.
And so let's do, kubectl get pod -A
and we can see that's up and running now.
So let's go ahead and run the validation again
and we can see it's succeeded.
And so, that's going to wrap up this lab.

--- Helm - Introduction ---

Instructor: Let's start by understanding what Helm is.
Now, Kubernetes is awesome
at managing complex infrastructures.
We humans tend to struggle with complexity, though.
Applications that we deploy into our Kubernetes cluster
can become very complicated.
A typical app is usually made up of a collection of objects
that need to interconnect to make everything work.
For example, even a relatively simple WordPress site
might need the following,
a deployment to deploy the pods that you wanna run,
such as MySQL database servers or web servers,
a persistent volume to store the database,
a persistent volume claim,
a service to expose the web server running
in a pod to the internet, a secret to store credentials
like admin passwords and other things,
and maybe even more if you want extra stuff
like periodic backups, jobs and so on.
For every object, we might need a separate YAML file.
Then we need to apply kubectl apply on every YAML file
to get these objects created,
and this can be a tedious task,
but that's not the end of it.
Now imagine we download these YAML files from the internet
and we are not happy with the default,
so we start changing stuff.
The persistent volumes are 20 GB, but we know our website
will need much more storage than that,
so we go to the YAML files
where the PVs and PVCs are declared,
and we change 20 to 100.
More stuff needs to be changed.
Well, we'll have to open up every YAML file
and edit each one according to our needs.
And now, not bad enough yet,
imagine two months go by
and we now have to upgrade some components in our app,
and so we are back
to editing multiple YAML files' declarations again,
with great care
so that we don't change the wrong thing in the wrong place.
Now, sometime later, you wanna delete the app
and we'll need to remember each object
that belongs to our app and delete them all one by one.
Now you might be thinking, Hey, that's not a big deal.
We can just write all object declarations
in a single YAML file and be done with it.
Well, that's true,
but it might make it even harder to find stuff
when you're looking for,
say you wanna troubleshoot an issue,
we'd have to continuously search for stuff
that we need to edit in something
that could be 25 pages of text.
Now, at least in multiple files,
they'd be somewhat organized
and we'd know we'll find deployment related stuff
in the mydeployment.yaml file, for example.
Enter Helm, Helm changes the paradigm.
Kubernetes doesn't really care about our app as a whole.
All that it knows is that we declared various objects
and it proceeds to make each of them exist in our cluster.
It doesn't really know that this persistent volume
and that deployment and that secret
and that service are all part
of a big application called WordPress.
It looks at all the little pieces
that the administrator wanted to have in the cluster
and takes care of each one individually.
Helm, however, is built from ground up
to know about such stuff.
That's why it's sometimes called a package manager
for Kubernetes.
It looks at those objects
as part of a big package as a group,
and whenever we need to perform an action,
we don't tell Helm the objects that it should touch,
we just tell it what package we want to act on,
like our WordPress app package.
And based on the package name,
it then knows what objects it should change and how,
even if there are hundreds of objects
that belong to that particular package.
Now, to make this easier to understand, think about this,
a computer game is contained
in hundreds of thousands of files.
There are a few files with the program's executable code,
other files with audio, game sounds and music,
and other files with graphics, textures, images,
files with configuration data and so on.
Now, imagine we'd have to download each of them separately,
and that would be tedious.
Fortunately, we don't have to go through such horrors
as we get a game installer.
We run it, we choose the directory where we want to install,
we press the install button,
and then the installer does the rest,
putting thousands of files in their proper location.
Helm does a similar thing and more for YAML files
and the Kubernetes objects that make up our application.
We use a single command to install our entire app,
even if it needs hundreds of objects,
Helm proceeds to automatically add every necessary object
to Kubernetes without bothering us with the details.
We can customize the settings we want for our app
or package by specifying desired values at installed time,
but instead of having to edit multiple values
in the multiple YAML files, we have a single location
where we can declare every custom setting.
In a file like values.yaml,
we can change the size of our persistent volumes,
choose the name of our WordPress website,
the admin password, settings for the database engine,
and so on.
We can upgrade our application with a single command.
Helm will know what individual objects need to change
to make this happen.
Helm keeps track of all the changes made to the app files,
and that allows us to roll back
to the previous so-called revision.
We use a single command to uninstall our app,
and it keeps track of all the objects used by each app
so it knows what to remove.
We don't need to remember each object
that belongs to one of our apps anymore
or use 10 separate commands to remove everything.
Helm does all the work.
We will look into these commands in more detail
in the upcoming lectures.
For now, understand that Helm works as a package manager
with Install or Uninstall Wizard,
and also as a release manager
helping us upgrade or rollback applications.
The most important thing
is that it lets us treat our Kubernetes apps as apps
instead of just a collection of objects,
and this takes a huge burden off our shoulders
as we don't have
to micromanage each Kubernetes object anymore.
Helm can do that for us.
Well, that's a quick introduction to Helm.
We have a lot more to discuss.
I'll see you in the next one.

--- Installation and Configuration ---

Instructor: In this section,
we will talk briefly about installing Helm.
And before installing Helm,
you must first have a functional Kubernetes cluster
and kubectl installed and configured on your local computer
with the right login details set up the kubeconfig file
to work with the intended Kubernetes cluster.
Now, Helm can be installed on Linux,
Windows or macOS systems.
We will go over the instructions
on installing Helm on Linux systems in this lecture.
System with Snap can install Helm
using the snap install helm command.
Use the classic option to install
a more relaxed sandbox that gives the app
a bit more access to the whole system.
So rather than strictly isolating it
to its separate environment,
this way, Helm can easily access the kubeconfig file
in your home directory
so it knows how to connect to our Kubernetes cluster.
For APT bases systems, such as the BN or Ubuntu,
follow the instructions to add key and sources list
before installing Helm.
And for PKG, I'll run the pkg install helm command.
Now, all this refer to the latest instructions
from the documentation pages to install Helm
for your version of operating system.
Well, that's all for now.
Head over to the labs and practice working
with installing Helm on our lab environment.

--- Lab: Installing Helm ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- A Quick Note on Helm2 vs Helm3 ---

Instructor: There were some significant changes
when Helm 3 was released compared to Helm 2.
And when you browse through charts and blogs online,
you may come across either of these versions.
So, it is important to understand
the differences between them.
Now, let's look at a brief history of Helm.
Helm 1.0 was first released in February, 2016,
Helm 2.0 in November, 2016,
and Helm 3.0 in November, 2019.
Now, since the initial launch in 2016,
the project has matured, and it got better and better.
The improvements were also made possible by the fact
that Kubernetes itself was improving,
so Helm had more tools at its disposal
it could leverage right off of Kubernetes.
In our lessons, we'll use Helm 3,
which has a simpler and better design
than the previous Helm 2 and is also a bit smarter.
Since Helm 2 was around for a few years,
a lot of users had already been using it,
but there are several important changes
made when Helm 3 was launched.
So, let's take a look at the differences between them.
Helm has a CLI client installed on your local machine
that helps you perform Helm-specific actions
against your Kubernetes cluster.
When Helm 2 was around, Kubernetes lacked features
such as role-based access control
and custom resource definitions.
To allow Helm to do its magic,
an extra component called Tiller
had to be installed in the Kubernetes cluster.
So, whenever you wanted to perform
a Helm specific operation,
your Helm client communicated with Tiller
that was running on some server.
Tiller, in turn, communicated
with Kubernetes and proceeded to take actions
to make whatever you requested happen.
So, Tiller was the middleman, so to speak.
Besides the fact that an extra component
sitting between you and Kubernetes adds complexity,
there were also some security concerns.
By default, Tiller was running in God mode
or otherwise said, it had the privileges
to do anything that it wanted.
This was good since it allowed it
to make whatever changes necessary
in your Kubernetes cluster to install your charts,
but this was bad since it allowed any user with Tiller
access to do whatever they wanted in the cluster.
After cool stuff like role-based access control
and custom resource definitions appeared in Kubernetes,
the need for Tiller decreased,
and so it was removed entirely in Helm 3.
Now, there's nothing sitting between Helm and the cluster.
Furthermore, with RBAC, security is much improved
and any user can be limited in what they can do with Helm.
And before, you had to set these limits in Tiller
and that was not the best option,
but with RBAC built from ground up
to fine-tune user permissions in Kubernetes,
it's now straightforward to do.
As far as Kubernetes is concerned,
it doesn't matter if the user is trying
to make changes within the cluster with kubectl
or with Helm commands, the user requesting the changes
has the same RBAC-allowed permissions,
whatever tool they use.
So, that's a big difference between Helm 2 and 3.
Helm 2 had Tiller and Helm 3 simplifies integration
with Kubernetes by removing Tiller.
The next big difference
is a three-way strategic Merge Patch.
The name might sound intimidating, but don't worry.
At the end of this section,
we'll see it's actually a simple
but very smart thing that can prove quite useful.
Now, Helm has something like a snapshot feature.
Here's an example.
You can use a chart
to install a full-blown WordPress website.
This will create revision number 1 for this install.
Then if you change something, for example,
you upgrade to a newer chart
to upgrade your WordPress install,
you will arrive at revision number 2.
These revisions can be considered something like snapshots,
the exact stage of a Kubernetes package
at that moment in time.
If there's a need, you can return
to revision number 1 through a rollback.
This would get your package app to the same state it was
when you first installed your chart.
New revisions are created
whenever important changes are done with the Helm command.
For example, when we first install a package,
a revision 1 is created.
Then when we upgrade that package, a new revision appears,
that's revision 2 in this case.
And even when we roll back,
a new revision is created, revision 3.
So, that's pretty straightforward.
Helm 2 was less sophisticated
when it came to how it did such rollbacks.
And when a rollback command is issued,
Helm compares the current chart,
which is the chart that has the WordPress image 5.8 in it
with the previous chart,
which is the chart that has a WordPress 4.8 image in it
and realizes that they're different.
So, it applies the original chart
to revert the WordPress image to 4.8.
Now, let's look at another example.
Say we install a WordPress deployment using a Helm chart,
which creates revision 1 just like before.
Then a user manually goes in
and updates the application image
using the kubectl set image command.
So, the application gets updated
and this is done instead of doing the upgrade through Helm.
And this does not create a new revision in Helm,
because the change was not performed through Helm.
When we now roll back, what happens?
As before, Helm compares the current revision
with the previous version.
Since there is only one revision,
Helm does not detect any changes,
and so it does not roll back
or make any changes to the deployment.
So, Helm 2 compares the current chart
with the previous chart to identify the difference
between revisions to make a rollback decision.
And in this case, it doesn't help us,
because the manual change that the user made
is still active.
Helm 3, on the other hand, is more intelligent.
It compares the chart currently in use,
if we had created a revision that is, which we didn't.
The chart we want to revert to,
and also the live state, how our Kubernetes objects
currently look like their declarations in the yaml form,
this is where that fancy three-way
Strategic Merge Patch name comes from.
By also looking at the live state,
it notices that the image version in live is 5.8,
but the image in revision 1
that we want to revert to, it has 4.8.
So, it makes necessary changes to come back
to the original state.
Now, besides rollbacks, there are also things like upgrades
to consider, where Helm 2 was also lacking.
For example, say you install a chart,
but then you make some changes to some
of the Kubernetes objects installed.
It all works nicely until you perform an upgrade.
Helm 2 looks at the old chart
and then the new chart that you want to upgrade to,
and all your changes will be lost since they don't exist
in the old chart or the new chart.
But Helm 3, as mentioned, looks at the charts
and also at the live state,
and it notices that you added some stuff of your own,
so it performs the upgrade
while preserving the anything that you might have added.
Well, that's all for this lecture
and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Helm Components ---

Instructor: Let's look at the different components
of Helm.
Helm has multiple components we'll be working with,
so let's take a look at its general structure, concepts,
and the pieces we'll be working with.
So we have the Helm command line utility on our local system
that we will be using to perform Helm actions
such as installing a chart, upgrading, rollback, et cetera.
Charts are a collection of files,
and they contain all the instructions
that Helm needs to know
to be able to create the collection of objects
that you need in your Kubernetes cluster.
By using charts and adding the objects
according to these specific instructions in the charts,
Helm, in a way, installs applications into your cluster.
When a chart is applied to your cluster,
a release is created.
A release is a single installation of an application
using a Helm chart.
Within each release, you can have multiple revisions,
and each revision is like a snapshot of the application.
Every time a change is made to the applications,
such as an upgrade of the image or change of replicas
or configuration objects, a new revision is created.
Now, just like how we can find
all kinds of images on Docker hub
or Vagrant boxes on the Vagrant Cloud,
if you're familiar with that, you know,
we can find Helm charts in a public repository.
We can easily download publicly available charts
for various applications, and these are readily available
and we can use them to deploy applications on our cluster.
And finally, to keep track of what it did in our cluster,
such as the releases that it installed, the charts used,
revision states and so on, Helm will need a place
to save this data.
This data is known as metadata,
and that is data about data.
Now, it wouldn't be too useful if Helm would save this
on our local computer.
If another person would need to work with our releases
through Helm, they would need a copy of this data.
So instead, Helm does the smart thing
and saves this metadata directly in our Kubernetes cluster
as Kubernetes secrets.
This way, the data survives,
and as long as the Kubernetes cluster survives
and everyone from our team can access it,
so they can do Helm upgrades
or whatever it is that they want to do.
So Helm will always know about everything it did
in this cluster and will be able to keep track
of every action, every step of the way,
since it always has its metadata available.
Now, let's look at each of these in a bit more detail.
Charts are a collection of files,
and they contain all the instructions that Helm needs
to know to be able to create the collection of objects
that you need in your Kubernetes cluster.
By using these charts and adding the objects
according to that specific instructions,
is how, as we discussed,
Helm installs applications into your cluster.
Now, I'll be using two applications throughout this course
to explain concepts.
First is a simple Hello World application,
which is a simple NGINX-based web server
and a service to expose it.
And the other would be a WordPress site,
which is slightly more complex.
Now, the simple web server will help you understand
the concepts in the simplest form.
The WordPress example will help you understand
its real life usage.
For example, in this simple Hello World application,
we have two objects, a deployment and a service.
And most of these you should be able to relate to
what you learned in the Kubernetes course.
It's a standard deployment object that deploys pods
of an image and a service that exposes it
as a node port service, for instance.
However, you might notice the image name
and replicas are specified in a different form.
This is called templating.
The values that go here are part of another file
called as the values.yaml file.
Now in a Helm chart, we'll often be interacting
with a special file.
You see, most of the time we won't need
to build the charts ourselves.
We have hundreds of them already available
to download in the public repository.
But what we'll almost always need to do
or want to do is configure the package
that we installed through that chart.
The values.yaml file
is where the configurable values are stored,
and most of the time,
this is the only file you'll have to modify
to customize the deployment of the application
for your needs.
This is like the settings file
or the inputs file for the Helm chart.
The charts are way more complicated
for a WordPress application with so many files
and very complex templating.
And we will look more into templating
and get into the details about these charts
later in this course, but for now,
we'll stick with simple charts to understand the basics.
Now, when a chart is applied to your cluster,
a release is created.
Now we could ask ourselves why the need
for an additional item?
Why can't we just say we installed a chart to Kubernetes?
Now in the command helm install my-site bitnami wordpress,
we used the chart at Bitnami WordPress
and named the release my-site.
So why not just use a shorter command
like helm install bitnami wordpress and be done with it?
Without specifying a release name.
Well, one simple reason why it makes more sense
to have releases based on charts
is that we can install multiple releases
based on the same chart.
So we can launch a second WordPress website
with a command such as helm install my-SECOND-site
bitnami wordpress.
And since there are two different releases,
they can be tracked separately
and changed independently.
Even though they're based on the same chart as releases,
they're two entirely different entities.
Now, this can be useful in a lot of scenarios.
For example, you can have a release for a WordPress website
that your customers use and another release
for a WordPress website
that is only visible to your internal team of developers.
There they can experiment and add new features
without breaking the main website.
And since the two releases are based on the same chart,
once they get something working correctly
on the development site, they can transfer it
to the main website
since it should work exactly the same way
as the two websites are basically clones
and built the same way.
Now we saw an example
of a very basic chart developed in Helm.
And earlier we saw an example of a chart
to deploy a WordPress application.
And what if we want to deploy a new chart, say,
for deploying Redis or Prometheus, for instance?
Thousands of charts are readily available
at different Helm repositories across the world.
There are different providers
who are hosting Helm repositories such as AppsCode,
Community Operators, TrueCharts, Bitnami, et cetera.
And you don't have to go to each of these repositories
to search for charts.
All of these repositories have listed their charts
in a single location known as the Helm Hub
or Artifact Hub, as it is also known now.
So at Artifacthub.io, you'll find charts
that you can use right away.
As of this recording, there are over 6,300 packages
available there, and you may search
for the chart you're looking for
or browse through available ones,
and sometimes the charts are actually published
by the actual developers of that project.
So you'll see the official
or verified publisher badges in such cases,
and it's preferable you use those when available.
We'll see more about installing charts from repositories
in the upcoming videos and labs.
Well, that's all for now.
I'll see you in the next one.

--- Helm Charts ---

Lecturer: Let's talk a bit more about Helm Charts.
Helm is rather an easy to use command line tool.
You just tell it to install this, uninstall that,
upgrade something, roll back to a previous state and so on.
And it proceeds to do all the heavy lifting
behind the scenes.
It's basically an automation tool where we,
the human operators, specify our desired end result,
the destination, and then it doesn't matter if 5, 10, 20,
or 50 actions are necessary to achieve that end result,
to get to that destination,
Helm will go through all the required steps
without bothering us with the details.
But since in the command line,
we don't give this tool a lot of info except,
"Hey, I want this installed."
How does it know how to achieve this goal?
Helm knows how to do its job
with the help of what are called charts.
Charts are like an instruction manual for it.
By reading and interpreting their contents,
it then knows exactly what it has to do
to fulfill as user's request.
As far as the human operators are concerned,
charts are just a bunch of text files.
Each specific file named in a specific way
has a well-defined purpose.
For example, as discussed before,
in the values.yaml file, we'll find parameters
that we can pass to the chart
so that everything gets installed
with a configuration options set as we desire.
Now, we saw this simple example earlier.
In this case, we have two objects,
a deployment and a service.
And it's a standard deployment that deploys parts
of an image and a service
that exposes it as a node port service.
However, you might notice the image name
and replicas are specified in a different form.
This is called templating.
The values that go here are part of
the values.yam file,
and we will look into templating itself
in more detail later in this course
and how to form these values.
So the two files are templates.
These are customized using the values
from the values.yaml file
to create the final version of files
required to deploy the application
on the Kubernetes cluster.
Apart from the values.yaml file,
every chart also has a chart.yaml file.
This contains information about the chart itself,
such as the chart API version,
which could be either V1 or V2.
There's also an app version, which is used to specify
the version of the application.
And then we have the name of the chart,
a description, type of chart, et cetera.
And these are just a few of the many properties
a chart.yaml file has.
So that's what we will look at next.
So let's look at the chart.yaml file
of this WordPress site
as an example to understand it better.
The API version is the API version of the chart.
Now, when Helm 2 was around, this field did not exist.
And when Helm 3 was introduced,
it came with the additional features
that introduced changes in the yaml file,
which were not present earlier.
For example, the dependencies section
and the type fields that you see here
were not available in Helm 2.
So Helm 3 needed a way to differentiate
between charts built in the past
and charts built for Helm 3.
And so this field was first introduced by Helm 3.
With this field, Helm 3 can now differentiate
between old charts built for Helm 2
and new charts built specifically for Helm 3.
So old charts will either not have this value set at all,
or if you build a chart specifically for Helm 2 today,
then it would need to be set to V1.
And all charts built for Helm 3
will have this value set to V2.
So let's say you build a chart with the API version
set to V2, but use it on Helm 2,
then Helm 2 will not even consider this field,
and will simply ignore any additional fields
that were not only available for Helm 3,
resulting in unexpected results.
So bottom line is
if you are developing a chart going forward,
just make sure that you set this to V2
because you're most likely going to write charts
for Helm 3.
And if you're looking at a chart
that does not have this value set,
then it is very likely
that the chart was built for Helm 2.
Okay, so next is the app version.
Now the app version is a version of the application
that's inside of this chart.
So in this case, the application is WordPress.
So this refers to the version of WordPress
that this chart will deploy.
This field is for informational purposes only,
and then there is version,
which is the version of the chart itself.
So every chart must have its own version,
and this is independent of the version of the app
that this chart will deploy.
This helps in tracking changes to the chart itself.
The next is the name of the chart,
which is set to WordPress, followed by a description.
And the next is type.
So there are two types of charts,
application and library.
So application is the default type,
which is all the charts
that we create for deploying applications.
And library is the type of chart that provides utilities
that help in building charts.
So we'll discuss more about that later.
The next are dependencies.
So the WordPress application is a two tier application
that has the WordPress server and a database server.
The database in this example is a MariaDB database.
So MariaDB has its own Helm charts.
So we could simply add it
as a dependency to our application.
This way we don't have to merge the manifest files
of MariaDB or any other database
into this particular chart.
And then there is a list
of keywords associated with this project.
This can be helpful when searching for this chart
in a public chart repository.
And then there is maintainers section,
which is information about the maintainers.
And there are optional fields like Home
and Icon that are used to share a URL
of the homepage of the project and a URL to an icon.
So a chart directory has the following structure.
It has a templates directory that has the template files
that we just talked about.
It also has the values.yaml
and the chart.yaml file we just talked about.
And apart from these, there may also be a license file
that has the chart license information,
a readme file that has information about the chart
in a human readable form.
And there could also be a charts directory
that has other charts that this chart is dependent upon.
And we will talk about chart dependency
later in this course.
Well, that's all for now.
I'll see you in the next one.

--- Working With Helm - Basics ---

Instructor: With Helm installed,
let's check out what we can do with it.
All operations are run
using the Helm command line interface.
To invoke the Helm command line interface,
simply run the Helm command.
Simply running the help command,
running help with the Helm option
will list helpful information.
This can serve as a quick way to remember
what the right command is to do something.
For example, say we want to restore a release
to a previous version after a failed upgrade,
we might wonder, wait, what was the command to do that?
Helm restore? And we then see in this list
that the correct command is actually helm rollback.
So it's much faster than
looking on the internet for the answers
since it's immediately accessible
from the command line interface.
We can also use this help feature for sub commands.
For example,
if we want to see what repository related actions
we can take,
the command helm repo help
will show us how we can add chart repository
or list chart repository
or remove repository and so on.
And we can even dig deeper
and learn about what a sub command does
and what parameters it supports.
So now that we are familiar with the basics of Helm CLI,
let's see what we can do with it.
So let's assume we are in a scenario
where we need to launch a WordPress website in Kubernetes,
and we know that we need a chart
to easily deploy the WordPress application.
So earlier we learned that
all the charts are stored
in the online chart repository at artifacthub.io.
So we go to the website and search for the chart manually.
To ensure we get a high quality chart,
we can try to find one that has the official
or a verified publisher badge.
So once the chart is selected,
we'll see a detailed page with all the info,
and we may want to know about this chart.
So it starts out with the exact commands
that we need to use to install the chart
into our Kubernetes cluster,
then continues with what software components this uses.
And further down the page,
we can even see some of
the most important configurable settings that we can tweak.
It's up to chart developers
to mention what they think is important
in this description page.
Another way to search for a chart
is from the command line itself.
Use the helm search command to search for WordPress.
But note that the search command
expects an additional sub command
where you must specify where to search.
So you must specify either hub or repo.
Hub refers to the artifact hub, which we just saw.
We know that the hub is where
all the repositories are kind of listed.
So this is going to list all charts listed
at the artifacthub.io.
However, if you'd like to search in specific repositories,
then you could use the repo option.
So here are the results that show a list of charts
for deploying WordPress along with the app version,
which by now we know is a version of the WordPress
that these charts will deploy.
Once we have identified the chart to install,
we can deploy the application in two commands.
As listed in the Read Me file for that chart,
there are two commands to be run.
The first is to add the Namibia repository.
So the Bitnami chart repository
is available at chartsbitnami.com/bitnami.
It must be added as a repository to our local Helm setup
so that when we run the install command,
Helm can find where the chart is to be installed from.
The helm repo add command adds the repository.
Next, we deploy the application to our cluster
using the helm chart
by running the command
helm install my-release bitnami/wordpress.
So that's it. It's super simple.
Deploying an application on a Kubernetes cluster
has never been easier.
At the end, we even get some useful information
about how we can use this WordPress install.
So this text is actually generated
by the instructions included in the chart.
So this way users can get an idea
about how they can continue
with their newly installed Kubernetes package.
Now, once a chart is deployed, it is deployed as a release.
So to list all existing releases, run the helm list command.
This is very useful
not only to track what has been installed,
but also to see
what hasn't been updated in a long time.
Now, when we want to remove all traces of this app,
imagine doing that by hand.
We would have to delete a lot of objects from our cluster
one by one
to get rid of all the WordPress related components.
But with Helm, this is again, easily done
with a simple command.
Since we now have the name of the release,
we can remove all Kubernetes objects
added by the WordPress website with one simple command.
Again, very easy,
we can really begin to see the power of Helm
as a package manager for Kubernetes.
Now, let's look at some of the other commands available
while working with Helm repositories.
So the helm repo command
can be used to add, list
and remove or update Helm repositories.
So we already saw the Helm repo add command.
The Helm repo list command lists existing repositories.
The Helm repo update command
is somewhat equivalent to
what a sudo app get update command does
on some Linux-based operating systems.
So in a nutshell,
the info that Helm has about that repository
is stored locally
and with time, repository maintainers make changes,
update stuff, and so on.
So our local copy of this info gets stale and updated.
So the command above refreshes the info that Helm has
by pulling it in from the online repository
to our local computer.
This way, we get the latest data available.
Well, that's all for now.
Head over to the labs and get your hands dirty
with some of the basic Helm command line operations,
and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Customizing Chart Parameters ---

Instructor: Let us now look at
how to customize chart parameters while installing a chart.
When we installed WordPress, we installed everything
with its default value.
But we may not want to do that at all times.
For example, the block has a default name
called User's Blog.
We may not want our WordPress site to have this name.
So how did it get this name in the first place?
The WordPress application deployed
by the deployment.yaml file has a WordPress blog name value
set as environment variable,
and it picks the value from the values.yaml file
which has it set to User's Blog.
So that's where the value is being picked from.
Now, when we install the WordPress application
with a helm chart, we did it
with a single helm install command.
Now, this command pulls the chart
and deploys the application instantly, so there is no window
for us to modify the value in values.yaml file.
One way we could modify some of the default values
is by passing in a command line parameter along with
the helm install command using the set option.
With the set option,
you can pass in any field from the values.yaml file
and set a value for it in the command line.
This can be used multiple times to pass multiple parameters
to the command line to customize the deployment.
So here we customize the WordPress blog name property
to helm tutorials and the user email to john@example.com.
And these override the values set in the values.yaml file.
Now, if there are too many of these values,
then another option is to move these
to our own custom values.yaml file.
So here we create a file named customvalues.yaml,
and we then move the variables inside this.
Since this is a yaml file, we replaced the equal sign
with the colon, and we then pass in this file
using the values option like this.
So dash dash values customvalues.yaml
So this is going to now pick the values
from this custom.values file, and then override the values
in the default values.yaml file.
And finally, what if we really want
to modify the built-in values.yaml file itself
instead of using the command line option
or the custom values file?
So instead of running the helm install command,
we will break it up into two commands.
First, we pull the chart using the helm pull command.
Now, this will pull the chart in an archived form
or compressed form, and then you will have to unarchive
or uncompress it, or you could have helm uncompress it
by running the helm pull command
with the dash dash untar option in the command line.
Now, this creates a directory named WordPress.
Under this, you will see all the files that are part
of the chart, and there is the values.yaml file.
We can then open and edit this file in any text editor.
And then once we are ready, we run the helm install command.
But instead of specifying the WordPress chart name,
now, we specify the path to the local WordPress directory.
So the ./ here indicates current directory,
and it picks the chart from the WordPress directory,
which is under the current directory.
So when you run the helm install command,
you can specify a release name followed by the chart name,
which is on the chart repository,
or if you have a local chart on your local file system
in a particular directory,
you can specify the path to that directory as well.
Well, that's all for now, and I'll see you in the next one.

--- Lab: Using Helm to Deploy a chart ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lifecycle Management With Helm ---

Tutor: Let's talk about Lifecycle Management with Helm.
Now, lifecycle management can sound like
a fancy technical term that's too abstract
to understand at first glance.
So let's translate it into plain English
by taking a look at some practical examples.
Now, each time we pull in a chart and install it,
a release is created, as discussed in the previous lessons.
A release is somewhat similar to an app,
but more specifically,
it represents a package or a collection
of Kubernetes objects.
Now, since Helm knows what Kubernetes objects
belong to each release, it can do things like upgrades,
downgrades, or uninstalls without touching objects
that might belong to other releases.
So each release can be managed independently,
even if they're all based on the same chart.
Now let's just create a new release
and discuss this as we go along.
So we'll install a pretty old version of
this Nginx chart.
By the way, you can pass in a specific version of Helm chart
to install using the version option
in the install command like this.
We now have an Nginx release, plainly called Nginx release.
And now imagine two months go by,
which is a long time for any piece of software,
but especially for a website,
a lot of security vulnerabilities get discovered
and they need to be patched up.
Now our Nginx hosted website may have many objects
in our Kubernetes cluster,
and when we upgrade the pods running Nginx,
maybe we also need to make some changes
to other Kubernetes objects.
For example, the newer version of Nginx
may require a new environment variable to be set,
or new secret to be created,
which requires changing configuration objects
and other files, part of the manifest files.
But it may be hard to keep track
of all pieces that need to be changed.
Fortunately, as we said,
Helm keeps track of everything associated with a release,
so we don't have to upgrade our objects one by one.
Helm can automatically upgrade them all
with one single command.
But first, let's see what version
of Nginx is running in our pod.
We initially have to find out the name of our Nginx pod.
So we run the, "kubecutl get pods", command
to see the pod that we created.
Then we run a "kubectl describe pod" command
to see more details about the image,
and we see that it's running Nginx version 1.19.2.
So that's pretty old.
Now let's see a Helm upgrade in action.
The command is rather simple,
so we just tell Helm what release we want to upgrade
and then specify the chart that this release is based on.
So we now run the Helm upgrade command
to upgrade the Nginx release.
So Revision 1 is now replaced, and by Revision 2.
Note the revision number in the output
of the Helm upgrade command.
So did the Helm upgrade command really do its job?
Let's check.
In the upgrade process the old pod gets destroyed
and a new one gets created.
So we need to get the name of the new one.
So we follow the same Helm process again
and get the new pod name then run a describe on it
and we see the new version, which is Nginx 1.21.4.
So there you have it.
We just went through the so-called
Lifecycle Management with Helm.
A release can exist for months or years,
and Helm can manage its lifecycle in many ways
by keeping track of its current state, previous states,
and bring it into future states.
So in this case,
we brought the release into a future state by upgrading it,
but Helm kept a record of the previous state too.
We noticed the revision number changing to 2,
so the previous state would be Revision 1.
Now, how does that help us?
Let's take a look at our releases.
Run the Helm list command to list the current releases,
and we have our Nginx release listed.
We see the current revision number, which happens to be 2.
In this case we know what the previous revision was
and what the current one is.
But say we work in a big team
and lots of people manage their releases,
this output doesn't really tell us what happened.
So how do we dig deeper?
Run the Helm history command
to see more details about a particular release.
This is a lot more helpful.
We can clearly see a lot of useful things.
What chart version was, or is used, in each revision?
What app version was, or is, used in each revision?
What action actually created that revision?
Was it an install, an upgrade, or a rollback?
So this paints a clear picture of the stages
our release went through, its lifecycle history.
Now let's assume this upgrade
did something that we don't like.
Helm's Lifecycle Management
allows for another cool thing called rollback.
Now, this lets us return a release to a previous date.
So in this case, we want to return to Revision 1.
So in this case, we run the command
"helm rollback Nginx release",
and specify the revision number
that we want to roll back to, and that is Revision 1.
Now, when you do that, remember,
Helm reverts all configuration
to how it was previously in Revision 1,
but technically, it does not go back to Revision 1.
Instead, it creates a new revision, Revision 3,
with a similar configuration as in Revision 1.
So if you list Helm revisions with the Helm history command,
now you will see that there are three versions
with Revision 1 and 2
having the same chart and the app versions.
And there is a note in description
that says it's a rollback to Revision 1.
It's worth mentioning that we chose Nginx here
as it's simple to upgrade,
but there will be Kubernetes packages
that may require a few extra steps to upgrade.
For example, if we had have tried to upgrade
the previous WordPress release that we created,
we would've got this output.
Now, that's not to say that this is a problem.
It can be easily solved by adding some more parameters
to the command line as instructed in the text.
But, why does this happen?
In this case, Helm cannot upgrade everything
without having access to some administrative passwords.
It needs administrative access to the database
and to the WordPress website itself
so that it can get permissions to make necessary changes.
It's also worth mentioning
that all the rollbacks are very similar
to a Backup Restore feature.
It doesn't cover file or directory data
that may be created by our applications.
Instead, Helm backs up and restores the declarations
or manifest files of our Kubernetes objects.
So for things that use persistent volumes
or other forms of persistent data
or something that is external,
maybe like an external database,
the rollback won't restore that data too.
For example, imagine you rollback MySQL database server.
The MySQL pods will be restored to their previous states,
software versions used and so on,
but the actual database, its data will remain the same.
Its data is not going to be backed up or restored.
So there are options available
to take consistent backups of databases
before upgrading charts,
or even to roll back or restore databases,
but they're done using what is known as chart hooks,
which we will discuss later in this course.
Well, that's all for now.
Head over to the labs and get some hands-on practice.

--- Lab: Upgrading a Helm Chart ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Kustomize Problem Statement and Ideology ---

(bright music)
Instructor: Before we get started taking a look
at what is Kustomize
and how to use it, I wanna start off by going over
what problems it tries to address
and why it was ultimately created.
So let's take a look at a simple example.
In this case, we have this nginx deployment .yml file
where we're going to deploy one single nginx pod
in this case.
And let's say that we have multiple environments.
We're gonna have one for development,
which is developing on our local machine, one for staging,
and then ultimately one for our production environment.
And let's say that we want to customize our deployments
so that it behaves a little bit differently
in each one of our environments.
And specifically in this case,
let's say we wanna modify the replicas
on a per environment basis
so that in our development environment
we're developing on our local machine,
which is not very powerful
we just wanna have one replica.
In our staging we might have two to three
and then in our production
which is gonna be handling a lot of traffic
maybe we want 5 to 10,
so how do we actually go about modifying
the different configurations on a per environment basis
'cause right now we just have one nginx
deployment .yml file.
And so it's going to deploy one replica
across all of our environments.
One of the simplest solutions to this problem
is to create three separate directories,
one for each environment
so we have one for development, one for staging,
one for production,
and what we want to do is we want to have all
of the Kubernetes configs
for each environment within their respective folder.
So we're essentially duplicating the configs
across all of the three different environments
and then just modifying the attributes
on a per environment basis
so that we can have different replicas for each environment.
And so what this is gonna look like is
in the deployment file in the dev folder,
we're going to make sure
that the replicas is set to 1.
And in the staging folder the replicas will be set to 2.
And in the production the replicas is gonna be set to 5.
So you could see it's the exact same config
that we're essentially copying in
the three different folders,
we're just updating the specific parameters
that we want updated.
And in this case it's just the replicas.
And then to actually push these configs
or these changes out, we can just do a kubectl apply
and just specify the specific environment directory
that we're using so if we're gonna do development,
we just specify development
and you can see the one nginx pod gets created
'cause we specified the one replica.
And then if we do the same thing for staging,
we'll see that it'll create the two nginx pods in this case.
Now this is a perfectly fine solution.
It'll work, there's no issues,
there's no limitations with the solution.
However, I will say that it is not the most optimal solution
and it's certainly not the most scalable solution.
And the reason I say this is
because imagine if we start
to expand our Kubernetes environment
so we start creating more resources.
And so let's say we wanna create a new service.
We created a service.yml file.
Well now when we create a service.yml file,
we have to remember to copy it to all three directories
because we don't want it to be missing
from one of our environments.
So now you can see that copying all of these files
is going to be a little bit more tedious.
And anytime you wanna make any kind of change
to one of your files,
you have to make sure you do it in all of your environments.
And if you've got five environments,
you have to make sure you do it in all three directories.
And really, it's going to be only a matter of time
before either you or one of your teammates forgets to copy
or change something in all of the directories.
And then you're gonna have a mismatch in configs
across your different environments.
And so that's why I would ultimately not
recommend this solution.
It may work for very small deployments,
but as your, the number of resources that you have
continues to grow, it's going to be harder
and harder to maintain this.
And this is one of the main reasons
why Kustomize was created.
We need a better solution to addressing this issue.
How do we make it so that we can customize each one
of our environments without having to duplicate
all of our code?
We wanna treat this just like regular application code
where we're not repeating everything more than once.
So let's take a look at how Kustomize addresses this issue.
And I do wanna really reiterate
what is the underlying problem.
And that is that we want a way
to reuse our Kubernetes configs
and only modify what needs to be changed
on a per environment basis.
What we don't wanna do
is copy all of our configs across each
and every environment.
That is just not a scalable solution.
So the way that Kustomize handles this
is that Kustomize has two key terms
that you have to understand.
There's your base or your base config,
and then you have your overlays.
So what are these two things?
Well, base config is kind of exactly what it sounds like.
Your base config represents config
that's going to be identical
across all of your environments.
So any resources or configs that you know
will be the same across all your environments,
you put it in your base config.
Your base config also represents default value.
So you could provide default values
across all of your environments
and you can then overwrite them later on.
So here we've got the same nginx deployment file
that we had in the previous slides.
And in this case, I've set the replicas to 1.
So this is my base config.
This is gonna be the default across all of my environments.
Now we already know we don't want it to be 1 in staging
and production,
and we only want it to be 1 in development,
but we'll worry about that in a second.
So the next term that I mentioned was overlays.
So the overlays allow us
to customize the behavior on a per environment basis.
So we can create an overlay for each one
of our three environments.
And here we can specify all of the properties
or parameters that we want to overwrite
or change from the base config.
So we are only interested in replicas at the moment.
So I have specified in the overlays,
I wanna change the replicas
to these specific values in each one of the environments.
So in the development environment, I mean there's no need
for this overlay because the defaults already set to 1
so there's nothing to be need to change.
But for staging, we wanna overwrite the default of 1
and change it to 2.
So we have an overlay for staging
and then for production,
we are then going to override it to a value of 5.
And so that is the base
and overlay relationship within Kustomize.
When you're using Kustomize,
your folder structure is going to follow
a very similar pattern.
You're going to have a base directory.
The base directory, once again,
is going to contain all of your base configurations.
So all of your Kubernetes resources,
all of your configs
that are going to be pretty similar
across all of your deployments,
you're gonna wanna put them there.
And then you're gonna have a separate folder for overlays.
And within the overlays folder,
you're gonna have a different folder
for each one of your environments.
And each one of these environments are going
to have the values that you want to overwrite
and change from the base config as well as any new resources
that should only be added exclusively
for that specific environment.
And so the workflow is going to look like this.
You're gonna have your base configs,
you're gonna have your overlays.
Kustomize is going to take both of them,
and it's going to create the final Kubernetes manifests
that we can then apply to our Kubernetes cluster.
The great part about Kustomize is
it actually comes built in with kubectl,
so you don't have to install any other packages.
However, as we cover in some of the later lectures,
you may still want to install Kustomize
because the one that comes shipped with kubectl
is not always the latest version.
With Kustomize, we're not actually making use of any sort
of templating system like we do in helm,
and that's nice because we don't actually have to learn
a templating language,
all we have to do is just define our base configs
and then specify our overlays
and what we want to change in the overlays.
And that keeps things very simple.
We're using standard YAML files.
All of it's very readable,
whereas some of the more complex helm charts,
they become very difficult to read
because of that templating system.
And because every artifact
that Kustomize uses is plain YAML,
it can still be used, validated,
and processed as nothing more than just plain YAML.
There's no special syntax,
there's no special templating language.
It's all just plain YAML.
And I think that's one of the nicest part about Kustomize
is that Kustomize is all about simplicity
and it tries to keep it as such.

--- Kustomize vs Helm ---

(bright tinkling music)
Instructor: Before we move on to the next section,
I wanted to talk about an alternative tool to Kustomize,
and this tool's called Helm,
and I wanted to just provide a brief,
high level overview of how Helm addresses the same issue
of providing modification to your Kubernetes manifest
on a per environment basis,
and I think it's good to see this just because, you know,
when you're trying to figure out
what is the best tool for your project or application,
you should have a good understanding
of how both of these tools work
and what are the pros and cons of each one
so that you can make the best decision for your project.
So the way that Helm actually tackles this issue
is that it makes use of a Go templating syntax
to assign variables to various properties,
and to give you an example of that,
let's take a look at a template.
So this is a regular deployment configuration,
except you'll notice something interesting.
There's these weird syntax where there's two curly braces
and then some random name or text.
In this case, for the replica's property,
you could see that there's two curly braces
and then there's a string called replica count in there.
So this is an example of the Go templating syntax,
and what this is, is this is a variable.
So we're not hard coding a value,
we're just assigning a variable
that we can later on provide some specific value
and we can tweak that value on a per environment basis.
So how do we actually provide a value to that variable?
So let's take a look at the same exact example.
You can see we have the replica's property
and the variable name is called replicaCount.
So to provide a value for the replicaCount variable,
we would create a values.yaml file that's going to contain
all of the values for the variables.
And so for the replicaCount example,
we can see that there is a replicaCount property
in our values.yaml file, with the value set to one,
so when we deploy our application,
it's going to insert a value of one
into the replica's property.
And if we take a look at the image,
more specifically the image tag,
we can see that it's going to look
for a variable called image with a property called tag.
So in our values.yaml file,
you can see that that is set to be 2.4.4,
so that value will get inserted in when we go
to deploy this application.
So let's see what a traditional Helm project structure
would look like that would allow us to kind of customize
that values.yaml file on a per environment basis.
So I've got a example directory here
and it's broken into two sections.
Under the templates directory,
this is going to contain all of our Kubernetes manifests
where we've inserted all of those variables
using that Go templating syntax.
And then in the environment section,
I have a separate values.yaml file
for each environment that I have,
so I've got values.dev.yaml for my dev environment,
and I got the same thing for staging and prod,
and so these are going to contain all of the values
that I want set on a per environment basis,
and when we go to deploy it,
we would just specify which one we wanna use
and it's going to insert those values
into the respective templates.
Now just a couple of other things to note about Helm.
So Helm isn't just about customizing your configurations
on a per environment basis,
Helm is actually a complete package manager
for your application.
So think of like either YUM or APT for a Linux system,
it kind of operates the same way
for your Kubernetes application.
And Helm is a little bit more complex,
but it also comes with a few extra features
that Kustomize doesn't have,
so things like conditionals, loops, functions, and hooks,
so you do get a little bit more functionality with Helm.
However, with that extra functionality
does come some extra complexity.
So, you know, when you're dealing with these Helm templates,
technically they're not valid YAML
because they are using that Go templating syntax,
and so if you take a look
at some of the Helm charts out there,
you'll see that they are actually really,
really difficult to read,
just due to that temping syntax
where everything is a variable
and it just becomes hard to figure out like,
what exactly is our chart doing?
What values can I replace?
Overall, it just becomes a little bit of a challenge
to read those charts,
and that's one of the perks about Kustomize,
is that Kustomize is very simple.
It's very easy to read, it's just regular YAML.
The regular base configurations
is just regular Kubernetes configs, and then the overlays,
where we go to modify it on a per environment basis,
that's all valid YAML as well.
So I think one of the big trade offs is, you know,
Kustomize is easier and simpler,
whereas Helm is a little bit more complex,
but it has more features as well,
so there are trade offs and you definitely wanna think
about what each one brings to the table
when you decide on what is the tool
that you're going to use for your specific project.

--- Installation/Setup ---

(bright music)
Tutor: In this section,
we'll go over how to install and set up Kustomize.
Before installing Kustomize,
you must first have a Kubernetes cluster up and running
and QCTL installed on your local machine
and configured to connect to your Kubernetes cluster.
Kustomized can be installed on a Linux, Windows,
or a Mac machine,
and the Kustomized team has made it very easy
to install Kustomize by providing a nice script
that will automatically detect your operating system
and install the appropriate version of Kustomize.
So on your terminal, run the following command,
which will download the script,
and that script will pretty much be responsible
for installing Kustomize for you,
so you don't have to run any other commands.
It's all done in that script itself.
After Kustomize is installed,
you can verify that it was installed correctly
by running the following command.
If you don't see an output similar to this,
that means most likely there was an issue
with an installation or maybe the environment variables
weren't updated in the current terminal session.
So, what I recommend that you do
is close out your current terminal session
and open a new one,
and usually that's going to make sure that everything works.
If there's still an issue,
then rerun the installation script again.

--- The kustomization.yaml File ---

(jaunty music)
Instructor: Now that we have the Kustomize tool
installed and configured,
we're gonna finally get started
playing with the tool itself.
So the first thing that we have to do
is we have to learn about the kustomization.yaml file.
And that's going to be the focus of this video.
We're gonna take a look at
what is the kustomization.yaml file,
why do we need it, and how do we configure it?
In this example, I have a k8s directory
that's going to contain all of my Kubernetes configs.
I have two YAML files.
One is for the nginx deployment
and one is for the nginx service.
And we're gonna point Kustomize to this folder,
'cause this is where all of my Kubernetes configs are.
But Kustomize won't look at either one of these files.
Instead, Kustomize looks
for one specific file called a kustomization.yaml file.
And so this is a file that you have to create yourself,
and it does have to be named kustomization.yaml.
And in this file, there's going to be two things
that we need to have in it,
and it's gonna be very simple,
but it's gonna be broken down into two different sections.
The first is it's going to contain a list
of all of the Kubernetes resources
that should be managed by Kustomize.
And so this is going to be just a list
of all of the YAML files that you want Kustomize to manage.
And so in this case, I have my nginx deployment YAML file,
and I have my nginx service YAML file.
And those are both listed under the resources section
of my kustomization.yaml file.
The second thing is going to be
all of the customizations
that we want apply to or transformation.
So what are the things that we need to change?
So in this example, I have a very simple one
where we're going to add a common label
to all of the resources that we create using Kustomize.
And it's going to add a label that has a key of company
and a value of KodeKloud.
Keep in mind, this is just one simple example
of a transformation.
There's a ton of different customizations
and transformations that can be applied.
I just want to keep it simple for now.
And so I really just want to hammer home the idea
that it's just two different things
in the kustomization YAML file.
You have all of the resources that you want managed,
and then whatever it is that you want to change.
Once we have our kustomization.yaml file
configured and completed,
we can now run the kustomize build command.
So we're gonna point the kustomize build command
to the k8s directory,
'cause that's where our kustomization.yaml file is.
It's gonna look for that file.
In that file, it's going to point
to the two resources that we defined.
It's going to import them,
and then it's going to apply all of the transformations
that we have defined.
And then once it's done that,
it's going to spit out
what the final configs gonna look like.
And so if you take a look at the output at the terminal
after you run this command,
you'll see that we can see the nginx service
that we defined.
You can see the nginx deployment that we defined.
And most importantly, you can see the transformations,
which is we applied an extra label
called company: KodeKloud,
and it's gonna get applied
to both the service and the nginx.
And that's what the common label transformation does.
It applies a specific label
to all of your Kubernetes resources.
Now, I wanna quickly summarize what we've learned
so far in this video.
We learned that Kustomize will look
for a customization file,
which is going to contain the two following things,
a list of all of the Kubernetes resources or manifests
that Kustomize should manage,
as well as all of the customizations that should be applied.
Then, when we run the kustomize build command,
this is going to take all of the resources,
all of the manifests that were defined
in the kustomization.yaml file,
and it's going to apply all of the transformations.
But it's important to understand
that when we run this command,
it does not actually apply or deploy
the Kubernetes resources.
Instead, what's happening is it's just spitting out
what the final config is going to look like in the terminal.
If we want to actually apply these configs to a cluster,
we actually have to take the output of this command
and redirect it to the kubectl apply command,
and that's something that we'll cover in the next video.

--- Kustomize Output ---

(bright music)
Instructor: In the last lecture, we learned about
the kustomize build command.
And we learned that when we run this command,
it's going to take all of our resources,
it's going to apply the all...
All the necessary transformations,
and then it's going to spit out the final configs
onto our console.
And what's important to understand is that
we don't actually deploy or apply any of these configs.
So if you log into your Kubernetes cluster
and you run a kubectl get pods, or get deployments,
or get services, you'll see that nothing was created.
So you might be thinking, well,
"How exactly do we apply these configs?"
We're making use of this awesome utility called kustomize,
but we can't actually apply it to our Kubernetes cluster.
Well, the command that you actually have to run,
to run kustomize, build all the configs
and then apply those configs
is this following command right here.
It's pretty long, but let me explain what it does.
So when you run this command, it's going to make use
of the Linux pipe utility.
And this isn't something that's specific
to Kubernetes or kustomize.
This is a feature of Linux, or really any bash or shell.
And so what this pipe utility does is it takes the output
of the first command, which is the kustomize build,
k8s or whatever to the is to the left of the pipe utility.
And it redirects the output of first command into the input
of the second command, which is the command to the right
of the pipe utility.
So we're basically running the traditional
kubectl apply -f, but we're applying a file
that comes from the output of the first command,
which is the kustomize build k8s command.
So that's all it's doing is taking the output of one command
and applying it as the input of the other command.
And so that allows us to make use
of the usual kubectl apply,
and that creates our nginx deployment as well
as the nginx service.
And if you want to take a look at how to do this natively
with just the kubectl tool, you can do kubectl apply,
and then you do a -k instead of a -f,
and then you provide the directory
where the customization .YAML file exists.
That's how we apply these resources.
Now let's take a look at how we can delete
resources using kustomize.
When it comes to deleting, it's almost identical
to creating, we just swap out the word apply with delete.
So the command that we're gonna run is
kustomize build k8.
We use the same pipe utility
and we do kubectl delete instead of apply -f.
And that's going to delete the two resources
that we had created in the previous slide.
And if you want to see how to do this natively
with kubectl, you just do kubectl delete,
and then use the -k flag.
So the -k flag basically means kustomize in this case.

--- Kustomize ApiVersion & Kind ---

(gentle piano music)
Narrator: Just like any other Kubernetes resource file,
you can set the API version and kind properties
on a customization.yaml file.
There are technically optional,
customizable pick up default values,
but I recommend that you hard code these values just in case
there's any kind of breaking changes in the future.

--- Managing Directories ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: Up to this point,
we've only taken a look at the absolute
basics of a kustomization.yaml file,
and we haven't really explored many
of the different features and functionalities
the tool brings to the table.
However, even with our current limited knowledge
of customize, we can already do
some really cool and powerful things with it.
One example of this is managing Kubernetes manifests
that are spread across multiple directories.
So let's take a look at an example of this.
In this example we have a k8s directory.
And inside this directory we have four different YAML files.
We have our API deployment YML file,
we've got a service YAML file for our API.
And then we have the same exact thing for our database.
We've got a deployment for our database
as well as a service object for our database.
And when it comes to deploying all of our Kubernetes configs
that reside in our k8s directory, we would just go into
that directory, the k8s directory,
and we would just do a kubectl apply.
Pretty straightforward, nothing special,
customized doesn't even come into play here.
This is just standard Kubernetes.
Now let's say over time the number of YAML files
that we have has grown.
Maybe we have 20, 30, 50 YAML files
and it's starting to get a little messy
and we want to organize it a little bit more.
And then we decide to then move things into sub directories.
So now our API related configs,
so that API deployment YAML file
and API service YAML file
gets moved under a API subdirectory
and all of the deployment and service configurations
for the database get moved under a database subdirectory.
So how exactly do we apply our configs now?
Well, we can't just go under our k8s directory
and do a kubectl apply,
we actually have to go
into each one of these sub directories.
And so, what that would look like is you'd do
a kubectl apply -f and then go under k8s/api
And that's going to deploy the deployment YAML file
for the API as well as the service YAML file for the API.
And we're gonna have to do the same thing
for the database directory now.
So we go onto the database directory,
do a kubectl apply,
and that's going to deploy the two YAML files
under the database subdirectory.
And this is fine,
however, as we grow out the number of directories
or sub directories that we have,
it's gonna start to become a little bit of a pain
having to go into each subdirectory
and doing a kubectl apply
because then every time we make changes,
every time we want to, apply our configs
or delete our configs, we'd have to go inside
each one of our sub directories and make sure
we run that command inside each subdirectory.
And we'd also have to configure our CICD pipeline
to go inside each one of them and do the same exact thing.
And things start to get messy at that point.
This is where customized comes into play.
So we can create a kustomization.yaml file
in the root of our k8s directory.
And inside this YAML file
or the kustomization.yaml file,
we're going to list out all of the resources
we want it to import.
So we're gonna provide the relative path
from the kustomization.yaml file,
to all of the specific deployment and service yaml files
within the API and database directory.
So now customize is made aware
of all of the different Kubernetes configs
that we wanted to import.
And so when it comes to
actually applying these configurations,
it's going to be a lot simpler
because it's just going to be one command.
We just do a customized build k8s,
and then pipe it into kubectl apply -f.
And so now we no longer have to actually go
into each one of the sub directories.
We just run this within the root of the k8s directory.
It's going to pull that kustomization.yaml file
and the Kustomization,yaml file
has the path to all of the individual YAML files
we wanna deploy.
And if you wanna do this natively with kubectl,
you can always do a kubectl apply -k k8s.
So customize has helped us address
the issue of splitting all of our configs
into separate directories.
We now no longer have to go inside
each one of the different sub directories.
However, with the way we've done it,
it's not exactly a perfect solution.
Let's say the number of directories grows, right?
Instead of just having two directories,
we now have four total.
So we've got the API, the database, one for the cache,
and one for Kafka as well.
And so now our kustomization,yaml YAML file,
the list of resources is going to start to get fairly long.
So it's going to import all the resources
from the API directory,
all the resources from the database directory,
all the resources from the cache directory,
as well as all the resources from the Kafka directory.
And so it's gonna start to get
really cluttered, really messy.
You're gonna have a kustomization,yaml file
with basically hundreds of resources getting imported.
And although that is technically a valid solution,
I think we have a better way
of handling this using customize.
So what we can actually do is we can add in
a separate kustomization.yaml file
within each one of the sub directories.
And what we're gonna do inside the subdirectory
kustomization.yaml file is,
we'll list all of the YAML files within that directory
and import that inside
that specific kustomization.yaml file.
So within this YAML file in the database directory,
it's going to import all of the YAML files
that reside in the database directory.
And we're gonna do the same thing
for all of the three other sub directories,
the API directory, the Cache directory,
and the Kafka directory.
They'll only import the Kubernetes configs
for that specific directory.
And then in the root Kustomization.yaml file,
all we'll do is we'll provide a path
to all of the different directories that we want included.
So when we do that, when we specify either the API directory
or the database directory
inside that root kustomization.yaml file,
it's going to go into that subdirectory
and it's gonna look for a kustomization.yaml file.
And it's gonna take a look at all the resources
that it imports, and the root kustomization.yaml file
is going to import all of those.
So now we've kind of better structured
our configurations
by having a separate kustomization.yaml file
inside each subdirectory
so that we can keep our root kustomization.yaml file
as clean and neat as possible.
And once again, to apply these configs,
we just run customized build k8s
and then pipe that into kubectl apply -f.
It's just one command.
It's gonna deploy all of the resources
across all of the sub directories,
and we can always do a kubectl apply -k k8s.

--- Managing Directories Demo ---

(upbeat jazz piano music)
Instructor: Let's take a look at a quick demo
we just learned in the last lecture.
So in this case, I have my K8s directory.
This is going to contain all of my Kubernetes manifests.
And if you take a look inside this directory,
I have three other folders in there.
And so I have all of the Kubernetes configs from my API.
I have all of my Kubernetes configs from my cache.
This is gonna be from my Redis database.
And then this is the database folder, which is going
to contain all of my Kubernetes configs
for my Mongo database.
And if we just expand these, you can see all
of the YAML files associated
with each one of these features.
And these are all pretty straightforward.
If you take a look at the database deployment YAML file,
this is just a standard deployment YAML file
for a Mongo container.
And if you take a look at the other two folders,
it's all pretty straightforward, just a service.
I have either a cluster IP service
or a load balancer service.
And then I usually have a config map as well.
Now, before we get started adding
our kustomization.yaml file, I want to go ahead
and actually deploy these using
the standard methodology without kustomize.
So, let's open up the terminal.
In here, what we're gonna have to do is
we're gonna have to go inside each directory
and do a kubectl apply.
So, we'll do a kubectl apply, we'll do a -f.
And we can do a
k8s.
And then we'll go into this API directory and apply that.
And run that.
And then we'll do the same thing for the other directory,
so I can go into cache.
And lastly, we can do db.
And keep in mind you could technically do this
all in one line if you just kept adding -f flags.
So, we could do -f k8s/db
or cache, and then once again another -f or k8s/api.
And you'll see nothing's changed
because we've already applied those.
But that's how you could technically do it in one line.
But like I said, as your application grows,
your Kubernetes configs is gonna grow as well.
And then you're gonna have to remember to do this across
all directories and it's gonna be a little bit cumbersome.
So, let's go ahead and delete these.
So, I'm gonna just run the same command.
And just change the apply to a delete.
So, let's now incorporate kustomize.
We're gonna start off with the simple solution
where we have just one kustomization.yaml file in the root
of our K8s directory.
So, I'm gonna go onto the K8s directory,
and I'm gonna create a new file,
we'll call this kustomization.yaml.
And the first thing that we need to do
is to find the apiVersion in kind.
We'll do apiVersion,
and this is gonna be kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
and then the kind is going to be Kustomization.
Then let's define our resources.
So we'll do resources,
and here we're gonna provide a list of all the resources
that we want kustomize to pull from.
And so we're gonna go into each of these three directories
and pull each one of these individual YAML files.
So, we're just gonna provide the path
or with respect to the kustomization.yaml file.
So, since this is in the root of the K8s directory,
to get to the API deployment YAML file,
you go into API and then you grab the file.
So, we just do api/api-depl.yaml,
and we can do the same thing for the other file
in there as well.
We do api-service.yaml.
And then to get the redis-config.yaml,
we're gonna go into the cache folder
and grab redis-config.yaml.
And then I'm gonna do this for the other five YAML files.
And I'm just gonna fast forward through the video
because it's fairly trivial stuff of just, you know,
providing the path to the specific YAML file
we want incorporated.
And so once we've defined all the resources,
we're going to pull up the terminal once again.
And this time we're gonna do a kustomize build.
So, I'm gonna do a kustomize build
and we're gonna pass in the path
to our K8s directory and we're gonna run that.
And so, what you're gonna see here
is it's going to print out
what the final Kubernetes manifests are gonna look like.
And so it's included everything that's in the API folder,
it's included everything in the cache folder
and everything in the database folder.
So, you could just scroll down and take a look.
And you can see we've got our NGINX server,
we've got our database,
and we've got our Redis server as well.
So, it's got everything in there.
But remember, when you do the kustomize build,
it just shows you what it would create,
but it doesn't actually apply it to your Kubernetes cluster.
To actually apply it to your Kubernetes cluster,
we're gonna have to pipe it into kubectl apply.
So, we're gonna run the same command, but we do a pipe
kubectl apply -f -.
So, this is actually going to apply it
to our Kubernetes cluster.
So, let's run that.
And we could see everything was successfully created.
And just to remind you guys,
if you don't wanna use the kustomize CLI,
you can actually use the built-in version in kubectl.
So, you can do kubectl apply,
and then -k for kustomize.
And then we pass in the K8s directory.
So, both would do the same thing.
And now let's just double-check
and verify that it did successfully create
all of the resources that we defined.
So, I'll do a kubectl get pods,
and we can see that the three containers
that I had defined are all in a running state.
So, now that we've done this
with one kustomization.yaml file
in the root of the K8s directory, I wanna move
to the better solution
where we have a kustomization.yaml file
within each directory that's going to import the YAML files
in that specific directory.
And then in the root run, we're just going
to import the kustomization YAML file inside each
of the respective directories.
So, let's go back to our root kustomization.yaml file
and we're gonna delete all of these resources.
We don't need these anymore.
And we'll come back to fixing up this file.
But I'm gonna go ahead and create a kustomization.yaml file
in all three directories.
And I'm just gonna copy the apiVersion in kind.
And I'm just gonna copy this file
and apply it to all the other directories.
Okay, so now we have a kustomization.yaml file within each
of these sub directories.
And so I'm gonna go into the one in the API folder
and I'm going to set up the resources in here.
So, for the kustomization.yaml file in the API folder,
we want it to import all of the YAML files
that reside within this folder.
So, I'm gonna import api-depl.yaml
and api-service.yaml.
So, we'll do api-depl.yaml.
And keep in mind, remember,
since we are in this kustomization.yaml file,
we need to provide the relative path to get to here.
So, since they are in the same directory,
we could just put the name of the file.
So, that one's done, we'll go into the one in cache,
and I'll do redis-config.yaml,
redis-depl.yaml.
And lastly, we'll do redis-service.yaml.
And then we'll go into our database directory
and do the same exact thing.
So, now that we've got all of the kustomization.yaml files
done in the sub directories, let's go back to the root
and we're going to import
all of these kustomization.yaml files.
So in this case, you know, we don't need to provide a path
to a specific file, we just provide a path to the directory.
So, when I provide a path to the API folder,
what's going to happen is it's gonna go inside
the API folder and it's gonna look
for a kustomization.yaml file.
So, you only have to provide the path of the folder,
and as long as you have a kustomization.yaml file in there,
it should be able to handle the rest.
So, I'm gonna do the same thing for cache,
and I'm gonna do the same thing for database.
All right, so I went ahead and already deleted
the resources from the previous example.
So, if I do a kubectl get pods,
we can see that there's nothing there.
And so, now we can do a kustomize build
and I'm gonna do the K8s directory
and let's just take a look and make sure
that it dumps everything out.
And so when we take a look at all of the configs,
you can see that it's identical to before,
and so now we can just do a kubectl apply -k k8s.
Or you can do the longer command with the kustomize build
and then piping it into kubectl apply.
Either one works.
So, let's try this.
And we can see that we successfully created
every single resource and if we do a kubectl get pods,
we can see that everything was successfully created.

--- Lab: Managing Directories ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Common Transformers ---

(cheerful piano music)
Instructor: Now let's take a look at
how we can use Kustomize to modify or transform
our Kubernetes configs.
And the way we do this is
through something called Kustomize Transformers.
And Kustomize has several different transformers built in.
You can even create your own custom transformers.
But in this lecture, we're gonna focus on
a specific subgroup of transformers
called Common Transformations.
And before we even go over what that is and what they do,
let's take a look at the issue
they're trying to address first.
In this example, we have our deployment.yaml file
and a service.yaml file.
So pretty straightforward.
And let's say that we want to apply
some common configuration across all of our yaml files.
So we want all of our Kubernetes resources
to have some common configuration.
Well, let's say that we want to specifically add
a label in this case, so something like org KodeKloud,
or maybe we wanna go into all of our Kubernetes objects
and add a specific prefix or suffix to the name.
So maybe we wanna append the word -dev
to the end of our name,
and we'll do the same thing across
all of our Kubernetes configs.
Now, we can go into each one of our yaml files
and add these in.
But keep in mind, in a production environment,
you're going to have significantly more than
just two yaml files.
And so doing this by hand is not a scalable solution,
and it's gonna be very time-consuming
and it's going to lead to a lot of errors.
And so this is why we have
these common transformations in Kustomize.
What they do is they allow us
to make these common configuration changes
across all of our Kubernetes resources.
So let's go over some of the common transformations
that we can apply.
So we have the commonLabel transformation,
and we just kind of saw what that does.
That basically just adds a common label
to all of your Kubernetes resources.
We also have the namePrefix and Suffix transformation.
This is going to allow you to add a prefix or suffix
to the names of all of your Kubernetes resources.
We've also got one for Namespace,
so you can put all of your Kubernetes resources
under a specific namespace.
And we also have commonAnnotations.
So if you wanna add some sort of metadata,
some annotation to all of your Kubernetes resources,
you can use the commonAnnotation transformation
to apply it across the board.
So let's take a look at these transformers in action.
We'll start off with the commonLabel one,
it's the simplest one.
So let's say we wanna add a label
to all of our Kubernetes resources.
Well, we would go into our Kustomization.yaml file,
and just add the commonLabel property
and then specify the labels that you wanna add,
and that's gonna go ahead
and add this to all of your Kubernetes resources.
Or more specifically, it's going to add it
to all of the resources that are being imported
by this specific Kustomization.yaml file.
Now let's take a look at the Namespace Transformer.
So the Namespace Transformer is just going to put
all of your Kubernetes resources under a specific namespace.
To do that, it's very simple.
You just do namespace, then the name of the namespace,
and then that's going to get applied
to all of your Kubernetes resources.
For the Prefix/Suffix Transformer,
we can add in a specific prefix or suffix
by providing the name prefix or the name suffix properties.
And that's gonna map to the prefix of the name
as well as the suffix of the name as well.
And for the last common transformation,
we have the annotation transformation.
So if you wanna add a specific annotation
to all of your Kubernetes resources,
you could just specify commonAnnotations
in the Kustomization.yaml file,
and then specify your desired annotation.
And that's going to get added
to all of your Kubernetes objects.

--- Image Transformers ---

(lounge music)
Narrator: Let's move on to the image transformer.
The image transformer is what's going to allow us
to modify an image that a specific deployment
or container is going to use through customize.
So in this example, I have a deployment.yaml file
where we're going to deploy a nginx server.
And the image right now is set to nginx,
but we can transform that using customize.
So let's define our customization.yaml file
and we're gonna have to specify two properties.
There's a name and then a newName.
So the name is going to reference
the name of the specific image that we want to replace.
So this is going to look through
all of our Kubernetes configs
and it's going to find all the containers
that use an image called nginx.
And then we're going to replace it with the newName,
which is haproxy, so it's going to replace
that image of nginx with haproxy.
Now just to kind of clear up some potential confusions,
you may notice that under the customization.yaml file,
we have a name,
and then under the containers
under the deployment.yaml file,
we have a name as well.
These two things are not related.
So the name under the customization.yaml file
specifies the name of the image,
not necessarily the name of the container.
So ignore the name of the container that's set to web,
we don't care about that.
The name property under customization.yaml file
looks specifically for an image called nginx.
Something to keep in mind, it confused me at first,
so I figured you guys would probably run
into the same issue.
And so after we apply this,
we can take a look at the new images now set to haproxy.
So now we know how to change the image using customize.
However, let's say that we don't actually
wanna change the image,
so we've got our nginx image here as well,
but let's say we just wanna change the tag.
Well, we can use the image transformer
to perform that action as well.
So instead of using the new image property,
we can assign the new tag property.
So this is going to give the new tag
that we wanna assign to that image.
So it's going to look for all of the containers
using an nginx image,
and then it's going to add a tag of 2.4.
So if we take a look at the final result,
we can now see it's nginx:2.4.
Now if we want to, we can actually combine the new image
and new tag properties together
so that we can modify not only the image, but the tag.
So if we wanna change our nginx image to be haproxy
and assign a tag of 2.4,
we can do that all within an image transformer
and the final result is going to be haproxy:2.4.

--- Transformers Demo ---

(gentle music)
Instructor: So let's take a look at making use
of some of these common transformations,
as well as the image transformer in a quick demo.
So in this demo, I've got my k8s directory.
And within here,
I've got a api folder and a db folder.
And within the api, I've got the api-depl.yaml file,
and then an api-service.yaml file,
as well as a kustomization.yaml file within here.
And then in the db folder, same thing,
I've got a depl, a service, and a config.yaml,
as well as a kustomization.yaml file within there.
So if we take a look at the kustomization.yaml files
in there, they've been set up to import
all of the resources within the specific directory.
So in the kustomization.yaml file within the api directory,
I'm importing both of those files.
And then if I go inside the db folder one,
you can see I'm importing
all of the database Kubernetes configs.
And then in the parent, or the root kustomization.yaml file,
I'm importing api and db.
So I wanna start off by adding a commonLabel
to all of the resources here.
And so to apply a commonLabel,
we would have to go to the root kustomization.yaml file.
So this is the main one.
So this is going to apply it
to everything in our Kubernetes environment.
So if we go here, we're gonna then do a commonLabel.
And let's say I want to add the label department,
and we'll say engineering.
Well, let's save this and I'm gonna open up the terminal,
and let's build out the configs and let's see what happens.
So I'll do a kustomize build k8s,
and that's going to look
for the root kustomization.yaml file.
And when it spits it out, let's take a look,
just a quick spot check of all of the resources.
And let's make sure that the commonLabel that we created,
department: engineering, got applied to everything.
So in this case, I've got my ConfigMap here.
So we can see that the department was set to engineering.
I've got my API service that's got the department set,
I have my db-service, I have my api-dpl.
And just quickly scrolling through,
we can see the db-depl as well.
So everything in our k8s directory
got that label applied to it.
That includes things in the api folder
and then things in the db folder.
Now I want you to guess what would happen
if we had applied an annotation, like we have here,
but instead of the root kustomization.yaml file,
we put it inside one of these kustomization.yaml files
within the subdirectory.
What do you think is gonna happen?
Well, let's take a look.
So here, I'm gonna add a commonLabel.
And for here, I'll just say feature.
And since we're in the api directory,
I'm gonna say the feature and then call it api.
So let's take a look.
I'm gonna go back to the terminal
and we're gonna run the same command.
And let's take a look at what it spits out.
So for the ConfigMap, right,
the ConfigMap exists inside the db folder,
not inside the api folder.
The ConfigMap does not have the new label that we assigned.
It's got the department: engineering,
but it doesn't have the feature: web.
And if we take a look at the api-service,
which is in the api directory,
we can see that we do now have a label of feature: api.
So it looks like
that when you apply it to a kustomization.yaml file
within a subdirectory,
it's going to only apply it
to the resources within this kustomization.yaml file.
So these two resources.
So this label gets applied
to whatever's in this list right here.
When we apply it to the root one,
this is going to get applied to these resources.
And since these resources
include all of our Kubernetes configs,
it's going to get applied globally.
So that's the difference
between applying it inside the root one
as well as within the subdirectory one.
And just to get this to match on the database site,
let's create a commonLabel
for all of the database configs
and we'll call it feature: db.
So if we build this now,
if we take a look at db-depl as an example,
we can see now, we have a feature: db.
Okay, so let's play around
with some of the other transformers
that we had covered in the previous lecture
and let's add all of these resources
into a specific namespace.
So I'm gonna go to the root kustomization.yaml file.
'Cause when I apply it here,
it's going to apply to everyone.
And I'll just add namespace,
and just give it some arbitrary namespace.
So maybe, we'll, this will be our debugging environment.
And when the namespace is applied, if we do a build,
we should see under everything,
so all five of these YAML files,
we should see it get applied there.
So for the db side of things,
we can see that the namespace was set to debugging.
For api, we should see that the namespace
was set to debugging,
so it looks like it was successfully applied to everything.
So now let's give everything a namePrefix and a nameSuffix.
And I wanna do something specific in this case.
I want every single object to have a name
prefixed with the word KodeKloud,
and I want all of the resources to have a suffix
that's specific to what folder they're in.
So for everything in the api folder,
I want it to end in web.
So right now,
if we actually take a look at the configs here,
it's gonna be api-deployment,
I wanted api-deployment-web,
and it should be prefixed with KodeKloud.
So it'd be KodeKloud-api-deployment.
And then for db, it's gonna be the same thing,
but a little bit different.
We're gonna change it to,
it's gonna be prefixed with KodeKloud as well,
but it's gonna end in -storage.
So let's think about how are we gonna accomplish this.
So for the prefix of KodeKloud,
we want this applied to every single resource
regardless of what folder they're in.
So in this case, remember,
you wanna apply configs to every single resource,
you go to the root kustomization.yaml file.
So we'll go in here and we'll add a prefix.
So this will be namePrefix and it's gonna be KodeKloud.
And we can just test this right now.
And we can see that the name, it looks like I missed.
Oh, okay, I've realized I wanna put a dash actually
so that the words don't get jammed together.
So if I do KodeKloud-, it's gonna look a little bit nicer.
So we'll rebuild that.
But now we can see it's KodeKloud-db-credentials.
And then let's find one in the api folder
just to make sure it got applied there.
And name, it says KodeKloud-api-deployment.
Perfect.
Now we wanna set up the suffix.
And like I said, the suffix is going to change
depending on which folder that we're in.
So if you wanna do something specific to one folder,
you want to go into the kustomization.yaml file
within that folder.
So for this one, we're gonna go here,
and I'm gonna do a nameSuffix.
And I'm gonna do a -web.
And for the db, I'm gonna do -storage.
So we'll do nameSuffix: -storage.
We'll save all of that, go back to the terminal,
and we'll do a build.
So let's take a look at what the final names are.
So for this case, we have our db-depl file,
and we can see that the name is KodeKloud.
So the prefix is still there,
and the suffix is set to storage.
Perfect.
And if we take a look at one of the APIs,
we've got KodeKloud, and then the suffix is web.
And for the sake of completing this,
let's add a annotation transformation.
And so I'm just going to apply a simple annotation
that's going to apply to every single resource.
So we'll go to our root kustomization.yaml file,
and I'll add in a common annotation.
And here, you know, pick anything that you want.
I'm just gonna say logging, it's gonna be set to debugging,
or let's just say verbose.
And now, if we take a look at all of our resources,
we should see a annotation of logging: verbose.
Awesome.
So I think the last transformation that we need to cover
is the image transformation.
So let's set up a transformer
to change specifically the image in our database.
So our image is currently using a Mongo database.
So let's change this to be a Postgres database.
So where do we apply this transformation?
Do we do it at the root of kustomization.yaml file,
or one of these sub directories?
Specifically the db one?
Well, it depends.
So remember, when we apply this in,
this transformation in a kustomization.yaml file,
it's gonna take all the resources.
And if it finds any resource
using that specific image that we specify,
it's gonna change all of them.
So you gotta figure out
where you want these changes to apply.
So in this case, maybe you don't wanna apply it globally
because maybe there's some other features
that also use a Mongo database,
and we don't wanna actually change those.
Maybe we only want to change the specific database feature.
So in this case,
we're gonna apply it to our kustomization.yaml file.
But obviously, this is going to vary
depending on what you're trying to accomplish
with your transformation.
So here, I'm going to do images,
and we'll specify name.
And this is going to be set to mongo,
because if we take a look at the deployment file
for our database, the image is set to mongo.
Remember, don't look at the name.
The name of the container doesn't matter.
We wanna specify the image name.
So we'll say mongo.
Then we wanna specify the newName property,
and this is going to be postgres.
And then if we want to, we can also specify a new tag.
So I'm just gonna give it some arbitrary tag,
maybe like 4.2.
And now let's test this out.
And if you guys noticed, I got an error.
And it's important to take a look at these errors
and just read it because it's gonna give us some information
as to what exactly happened.
But it says it cannot unmarshal number
into Go struct field image of type string.
So it looks like it's expecting a string,
but for some reason, we gave it a number.
So I'm suspecting the issue is with the tag right here.
If I actually comment this out,
I assume we're probably not going to get an error.
And it seems to work.
So there seems to be an issue with this.
So I found out that we just gotta cover this in quotes
and give it a string.
So it expects a string for the tag.
And so now if I do a build, we should see it goes through.
And let's take a look at the final result.
So if we go under our db-depl,
so let's see, this is going to be our database deployment.
And if we go down to the specific image,
we can see that it is now set to postgres:4.2.
Notice the name still remains mongo.
It doesn't change the name of the container,
it just changes the images that we're using.
And if we scroll through everything else,
you should see that we didn't change any other image.
It should have left everything else untouched.
That's gonna wrap up this section.
In the next section, you're gonna have a lab
that's gonna let you get some hands-on experience
with working with transformers
so that you can modify your Kubernetes configs.

--- Lab: Transformers ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Patches Intro ---

(gentle music)
Instructor: In this section,
we're gonna take a look at patches.
And so kustomize patches provide another method
to modifying Kubernetes configs.
However, unlike common transformers,
patches provide a more surgical approach
to targeting one or more specific sections
in a Kubernetes resource.
So basically, if you want to apply a configuration
across the board,
like adding a label or assigning a namespace
to all of your Kubernetes objects,
you're gonna use a common transformer.
However, if you wanna apply
or change something on one specific object
or just a couple of objects,
you would use a kustomize patch.
So things like updating the number of replicas
in a deployment,
you would use a kustomize patch
to match a specific object and then change that value.
Now to create a patch,
we have to provide three different parameters.
The first one is Operation Type.
So what exactly do we want to do?
And so I've listed out the three most common operations.
Keep in mind, there are a couple more,
but they're not as frequently used.
So we have add, remove, and replace.
So add, you'd perform an operation, an add operation.
If we have a list of containers in a deployment,
and let's say you wanted to add another container
to that list, that would be an add operation.
Remove would be the opposite.
Let's say you wanted to remove a container from the list,
or even remove a label.
It could be removing anything.
And then finally, we have replace.
So replace is taking a value that's provided
and then swapping it out with another value.
So if the base configs have a replica count of 5,
and you say, "Oh, I actually want 10,"
you could do a replace and replace the replica
to a value of 10.
Then after we specify the operation,
we have to provide a Target.
So this is basically specifying the match criteria
on exactly what resource do we want to apply the patch on.
And so we can match on a couple of different properties
like kind or the version or the name of the object
or the namespace, labelSelector, or AnnotationSelector.
So you can mix and match as many of these as you want
to specify the exact Kubernetes object
or objects that you wanna match on and keep.
So it's not just one, you don't have to just use one.
You can use more than one to match on exactly what you want.
And then after you match your specific object,
you have to then provide a Value.
So for the Value property, this is going to be the value
that we will either be replaced or added with.
So if we are doing an ad operation,
we have to provide what exactly do we want to add?
If we want to do a replace,
what do we want to replace the preexisting config with?
And keep in mind, this is not going to be applicable
for a remove operation
just because if you're removing something,
there's no value to be provided.
You just specify the Target and then you remove it.
Now let's take a look at a kustomize patch in action.
So I have an example depl.yaml file here.
And let's say that I want to set up a patch
so that I can update the name property.
Right now it's set up to be api-deployment,
and let's say I wanna change it to web-deployment.
So let's take a look at what our kustomization.yaml file
is ultimately gonna look like for the patch.
So in this case, I've got my kustomization.yaml file,
and all of the patch configuration
is going to fall under a property called patches.
And we're gonna have to provide a couple things.
And the first thing is going to be what is the target?
So what Kubernetes object are we going to match on?
And we could specify a couple of different properties.
In this case, I'm matching on a kind of deployment.
So it's going to look through all of my Kubernetes configs
and it's going to match
on only things that are of type deployment.
And then I'm going to match on a deployment
with a specific name of api-deployment.
And that's going to match this exact Kubernetes object.
Then we have to specify patch,
and then we do this | and then a -.
So you have to add that,
and this is for what is referred to as an inline patch.
And I'll go over what a inline patch is
in the next slide or two.
But for now, just understand
that you're gonna have to add that | and -.
And then we have to specify our different properties.
So in this case,
we are going to specify a operation of replace.
So you do op:, and then the name of the,
or the type of the operation.
Because we wanna swap this out with a new value,
so that's going to be a type replace.
We're not trying to delete it,
we're not trying to add a new name.
Then we have this property called path.
So what exactly is a path?
Well, we have to tell kustomize
what is the specific property we want to replace or update,
and how do we get to it in the YAML tree.
So we have to provide a path to that property.
So how do we get to the name property?
Well, we have to go under metadata.
So for the path, we say /metadata,
and then we get to the name property.
And so then we do /metadata/name.
And if your property is nested further down the YAML tree,
you would just keep going down the path
and just updating each level accordingly.
And we'll take a look at a couple more examples
just to make sure you guys really understand this idea.
And then finally, we're gonna specify the value
that we want to update the name.
So we're gonna set this to be web-deployment.
And so if we take a look
at the final depl.yaml config,
it's going to be updated with the new name
of web-deployment.
Now let's take a look at one more example
just so that we can reinforce everything
that we just learned.
And so I've got the same exact deployment here,
and this time,
we're going to update or replace the value of replica.
So it's set to 1, and I wanna change to some other value.
So if we take a look at our kustomization.yaml file,
we can see that we have the same exact target.
So we're gonna match on a Kubernetes deployment
with the name of API deployment.
And for the patch,
we're gonna once again do a replace operation.
And for the path,
this is where things are gonna be a little bit different.
So we have to figure out,
how do we get to the replicas property?
Well, we have to go under spec,
so it's going to be a /spec.
And then we have to get to replica, so /spec/replicas.
And then we set the value to be 5.
And if we take a look at the final depl.yaml file,
we can see that the replicas has been updated
to a value of 5.
In kustomize, there's actually two different ways
to define a patch.
So till now, we've only been working
with what's referred to as a JSON 6902 patch.
And so a JSON 6902 patch has two things
that you have to provide,
the Target, which is going to tell kustomize
what Kubernetes object do we want to patch,
and then we have to provide the patch details.
So what is the operation,
what's the specific property we wanna update,
and then what's the new value.
So that's a JSON 6902 patch.
I've provided a link to the RFC.
So if you wanna see or read more details
about how this works, definitely take a look at that link.
It's gonna walk you step by step
through all the different features
and functionalities it has.
But I wanted to go over the second way to define a patch,
and that's called a strategic merge patch.
And so this is what a strategic merge patch looks like.
And you'll notice one thing,
if you take a look at all the text,
it looks pretty similar to a standard Kubernetes config.
It actually looks like the beginning
of a regular Kubernetes deployment.
And that's exactly what it is.
I basically just copied the original API deployment file
and I just pasted it in there,
and then I deleted all the stuff I don't wanna change.
And so this is one of the perks
of using a strategic merge patches
that it's just using regular Kubernetes configs.
And then what it's going to do
is it's going to take this new config
and it's going to merge it with the old config,
and it's going to figure out exactly what's changed
and it's going to update those properties.
So when you do this method,
you have to make sure that you provide basically two things.
Once again, we need a way to tell kustomize
what Kubernetes object do we wanna update.
So in this case,
I've provided metadata and then the name of the deployment.
So this is just like defining a deployment
where you specify the name,
this is what's going to let kustomize know
what we're trying to change.
And then you have to specify
the specific properties that you wanna change.
So just like you would define it
in a regular depl.yaml file,
you go under spec and then replicas,
because that's the property I wanna change,
and then you just provide the new value.
So it's going to take that new value of 5
and it's going to merge with the original config.
And I think the original one was a value of 1,
and it's gonna say, "Hey, we wanna update 1 to a 5,"
and then it's going to merge that together
and give us the final result.
And so that's how we strategic merge patch works.
Both of these methods work fine.
There's no issues with using either one,
it's just a matter of personal preference.
You can even mix and match, if you'd like.
I happen to prefer the strategic merge patch
just because I get to use regular Kubernetes configs,
and I think it makes it a little bit more readable.
But if you guys prefer JSON 6902 patch,
definitely go ahead and use that.

--- Different Types of Patches ---

(pleasant music)
Instructor: Now, this is gonna complicate things
a little bit more, but for both the JSON 6902 patch,
as well as the strategic merge patch,
there's two different ways you can define a patch.
The first one is inline, and that's the one
we've kind of been working with till now.
And that's where you define the patch
within the kustomization.yaml file.
The other method is by using a separate file.
So what we can do instead is in the kustomization.yaml file,
we can provide the target like we normally do.
And then we can provide a path to a YAML file
that's going to contain all of our patches,
so that we don't have to clutter up
our kustomization.yaml file.
And so, what that's going to look like is,
in the replica-patch.yaml file,
that's going to contain a list of all of our patches.
So in this case, I've just got one.
So either one of these methods works.
Once again, if you want to just put it in line
in your kustomization.yaml file, feel free to do so.
If you have a lot of patches,
it may start to clutter things up, and then you can move it
to a separate file and then use the separate file method.
And we can do the same thing for a strategic merge patch.
We can define everything in line or, if we want to,
we can specify a path to a YAML file
that's going to contain all of our patches.

--- Patches Dictionary ---

(pleasant music)
Instructor: Let's take a look at another example
on how to update a key in a dictionary
in our Kubernetes config using a JSON 6902 patch.
So I've got my deployment configuration here.
And I've got one label called component API,
and I wanna update that to be component web.
So how do we do that?
Let's take a look at the kustomization.yaml file.
So we're gonna have our target, which is going to specify
what Kubernetes object we wanna match on.
So it's gonna look for a deployment configuration
with the name of API deployment.
Under patch, you can see that the operation
is set to replace 'cause we wanna replace component
with a new value.
We don't want to add or delete a label,
we want to replace this one.
And then we have to provide the path.
So the path is, how do we actually
get to the labels property in our config?
Well, we have to go under spec, so we do /spec.
Then we go under template, so /template.
Then we go under metadata,
metadata and then labels, labels.
And that's going to get us to that dictionary.
And then we wanna update the component property.
So how do we update component?
Well, under the path you finally just provide the name
of the specific key we wanna update.
So that's gonna be component.
And then we provide the new value,
so that's going to change it to web.
And so the final result is going to be,
the label's going to be change to component web.
Now, let's take a look at how we can do the same exact thing
of changing a key and a dictionary
using a strategic merge patch.
And so, I've got my usual API deployment configuration.
And I wanna change that one label, component API,
to be component web.
So how do I do that?
Well, let's take a look at our kustomization.yaml file.
First thing to note is that instead of doing this inline,
I've decided I'm gonna use a separate file.
You can do this inline as well,
I just think it kind of makes it a little cluttered.
So I've decided to move it to a separate file.
And so, I have the patches section,
which is going to list out all of the YAML files
that are gonna contain all of my patches.
And I've got one file called label-patch.yaml.
And if we take a look at label-patch.yaml,
you can see that this is basically a copy and paste
of our original API deployment configuration.
So that's what I did, I copy pasted it into this file.
And then what I did is I went in and I deleted
all the properties that weren't changing.
So like the containers,
that's still gonna be an Nginx container.
So I just deleted that, and I just keep all the things
that it absolutely needs.
So the first thing it needs
is going to be the metadata and the name.
So it has to be able to know what specific Kubernetes object
do we want to update,
and then the exact property that I wanna change.
So I've set the component to be web this time.
And so, customize is then gonna take this config,
merge it with the original API deployment config.
And it's going to see that the only thing that's changing
between the two is the component label
is getting changed to web.
And so, it's going to then change that label
and then give us the outputted result.
So we saw how we can replace or modify a key
and a dictionary using a JSON 6902 patch.
Let's now take a look at how we can add a new key.
So I've got my deployment configuration.
I've got one label called component API,
and I want to add in a second label.
So I want to add in a label that says,
that's gonna be org kodekloud.
So what is that gonna look like
in our kustomization.yaml file?
Well, the first thing
that we need to focus on is the operations.
So if you take a look under the patch section,
the operation gets changed to an add.
So this is going to add a new key to that dictionary.
And then we have to provide a path
to the specific dictionary that we want updating.
So we go under spec, then template,
then metadata, and then we get down to labels.
And then finally, we have to provide the new key.
So you provide the key in the path,
and then you provide the value.
So then this is gonna give us org kodekloud.
And the final result is going to be, we have two labels now
with the original component API.
And then we have the org kodekloud
'cause this is a add operation.
Now, let's see how we can add a key to a dictionary
using a strategic merge patch.
So I've got the same exact deployment configuration
with one label, component API.
And then in my kustomization.yaml file,
I'm gonna use the separate file method
just because I didn't wanna do this inline.
And if we take a look at what that label-patch.yaml
configuration looks like, you can see, once again,
I've just copied the original deployment configuration.
And then I've just deleted all the things that won't change.
And so, under spec/template/metadata/labels,
I've added the new label that I want added.
And what this is gonna do is it's gonna take
that label-patch.yaml file, and it's going to merge it
with the API-deployment.yaml file.
And it's gonna see that the original
API deployment YAML file had a component API label.
And then the label-patch.yaml has a label, org kodekloud.
It's gonna see both of them are different,
and it's gonna merge it together.
And the final result is we get both of those labels added.
We saw how we can add and replace a key in a dictionary.
So now we're gonna take a look at how we can remove a key
from a dictionary using a JSON 6902 patch.
So this is my deployment configuration.
The only difference now is that you can see
I have two labels.
If we take our kustomization.yaml file,
the most important thing to notice
is that we've changed the operation to be a remove.
And then for the path, we have to provide the path
to get to the specific labels dictionary.
So we have to go into spec/template/metadata/labels,
and then we provide the specific key
of the label that we wanna remove.
So in this case, I wanna remove org kodekloud.
So then I just provide org,
and that's going to delete that label.
And so, the final result is that I end up
with just one label and that's the component API.
So now, let's take a look at how we can remove a key
from a dictionary using a strategic merge patch.
And so, I've got the same two labels here,
and the label that I wanna delete is the org kodekloud.
So I've got my kustomization.yaml file.
This is going to point to a separate file
called label-patch.yaml.
And in here, the way we're going to actually delete a key
is we're gonna set it to null.
So I just go under spec/template/metadata/labels,
and then I specify org and give it a value of null.
And that's going to delete the key effectively.

--- Patches List ---

(upbeat music)
Instructor: So we saw how we can remove, replace,
and add keys to a dictionary.
Let's now take a look at how we can perform those
operations on a list.
So, I've got a deployment configuration here,
and at the bottom of the deployment configuration,
I've got one container with the name of nginx
and an image of nginx.
And it's important to understand
that the container section expects a list.
So that's why you see that dash before the name.
So you can have more than one container.
I only have one in this case,
but you can have as many as you'd like.
So let's see how we can change the name in the image
of this specific container here.
So if we take a look at our kustomization.yaml file,
we're gonna have the target, as usual,
that's gonna target this specific Kubernetes object
by providing the kind and the name.
The patch section, under operation,
we're gonna have a replace operation
'cause we're gonna replace the name and the image.
Now this is where it gets interesting, the path, right?
To get to containers, you have to go under spec,
then template, then spec, then containers,
and then something interesting happens.
We have a zero.
So what does this zero mean?
Well, the number at the end of the path represents
the index of the container you wanna change.
So remember, this is a list,
so you can have more than one container,
and the index is going to represent
which item in that list you wanna update.
And so if you've ever worked with a programming language,
you know that when it comes to a list or an array,
the first item in that list is always going
to have an index of zero.
So it starts counting from zero.
The second one is going to be a one,
the third one is going to be a two,
and the fourth one is gonna be a three, and so on.
So we only have one container,
but that's going to be both
the first and the last container.
And since this is the first container,
it's going to have an index of zero.
So this is going to tell Kustomize,
I want to change the first container,
which is gonna be that nginx container.
And then I specify the new name
and the new image under the value section.
And if you take a look at the final result,
we can see that is now changed to haproxy
for both the image and the name.
So, let's now take a look at how we can replace a container
or replace an item in a list using a strategic merge patch.
And so I've got the same deployment configuration
with the same nginx container.
And so I want to update the image of this container.
So, I've got my kustomization.yaml file
that's going to point to the label-patch.yaml file.
And if you take a look at the label-patch.yaml file,
you'll see that under the container section,
I specify the name of the container that I wanna change,
which is going to be nginx.
And then I provided the new image of haproxy.
And that's going to update the image.
Let's now take a look at how we can add an item
to a list using a Json6902 patch.
So once again, I have my deployment configuration
with one container
and that's gonna be my nginx container.
And I want to add a second container to this list.
So how do I do that?
Well, in my kustomization.yaml file,
the first thing that I'm gonna need
to change is the operation.
So it's going to be set to add
because I want to add a container.
And then the next thing that you probably have noticed
that's probably sticking out a little bit
is that at the end of my path I have this dash.
So what does that mean? All right.
It looks like a typo, but, in fact, I want that there.
So what the dash means is, well, first of all,
at the end of the path,
you have to specify where do you wanna add the container
in the list.
So where in the order.
The dash just means I want
to add it at the end of the list.
So it's going to put it in after the nginx container,
but I could also specify a specific index
for where I want to add it to.
So if I want to add it to the front of the list,
I would provide an index of zero, 'cause remember,
arrays and lists start with an index of zero.
If I wanna make it the second item,
I would give it a value of one, an index of one.
But since the order doesn't really matter in this case,
I'm just gonna add it at the end.
That's why I have the dash.
Then we provide the values as usual.
So I'm gonna set the name to haproxy
and the image to haproxy.
And then finally, when we take a look
at the final configuration,
you can see that we now have two containers,
one called nginx and one called haproxy.
Adding an item to a list using a strategic merge patch
is going to be just as simple.
So, once again, we've got one specific container here
with the name of web and an image of nginx.
And I'm going to use a separate file to list out my patches.
So I've got my label-patch.yaml.
And all we have to do is just specify
the new container we want to add.
So, here I'm adding a new container with the name of haproxy
and an image of haproxy.
So when we merge the two configs together, it's going to see
that there's a container
from the original configuration called web,
and then there's a container from the patch called haproxy.
These are two containers, so it's gonna merge it together,
and we're gonna end up having two containers in our array.
So, now let's move on to deleting items from the list
using a Json6902 patch.
And so I'm gonna start off with two containers
and I want to delete the container
with the name of database.
So in my kustomization.yaml file,
I'm gonna change the operation to be a remove.
And then I'm going to provide the index
of the container I wanna remove.
So we have two containers and I wanna grab the second one.
So that's going to be an index of one.
Remember, we always start counting at zero.
So the web container is going to be an index of zero.
The second container, the database one
is going to be an index of one.
And then we don't need to provide a value
because this is a remove operation.
And if we take a look at the final result,
we can see that we just have one container.
Okay, so now let's see how we can delete an item
from a list using a strategic merge patch.
So, once again, we've got two containers
and we want to delete the container called database.
And so if we take a look at our label-patch.yaml,
you're gonna notice something a little bit different.
If you take a look at the containers section,
you're gonna see this interesting symbol,
you're gonna see the dollar sign,
patch, and then delete.
So when you're dealing with
the strategic merge patch, right,
we're listing out all of the Kubernetes configs
that we wanna change.
Well, how do we list out that we want to delete something?
If I don't include, then Kustomize just thinks
that I don't wanna do anything.
So how do I tell it I want to delete something?
Well, I have to use the delete directive,
and that's what that dollar sign patch is.
So I use dollar sign patch, and then I say delete.
And then under it, I give it exactly what I want to delete.
So I want to delete the container with the name of database,
and that's going to delete that container.
And we're gonna end up with
just one container at that point.

--- Lab: Patches ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Overlays ---

(bright music)
Instructor: Now that we've learned how to work
with kustomization.yaml files
and the different functionalities that come with it,
we can finally put everything together
and address the main use case of Kustomize.
As mentioned before
in one of the first lectures of this course,
Kustomize was created to allow us
to take a base Kubernetes config
and customize it on a per-environment basis.
And so if we have a development environment
and a staging environment
and a production environment,
we may wanna tweak certain properties
on a per-environment basis,
and that's where Kustomize really does come into play.
So how exactly do we accomplish this?
Well, it's with something called overlays.
And if you take a look at a usual folder structure
of a customized project,
it's gonna be broken down into two different sections.
So you're gonna first have the base section.
So this is going to be where
all of your shared configuration,
so all of your Kubernetes configs
that are gonna be shared across all of your environments
or all of your default configs are going to reside.
So your base config is going to have
all of these shared and default configurations.
And then what we're gonna do is on a per-environment basis,
we're gonna define a overlay folder for each environment.
And here we get to specify
all of the environment specific configs
so that we can take the base configs
and then modify it to our liking
for that specific environment.
And so that's why we have a folder for dev,
and a folder for staging, and a folder for production.
And if you haven't guessed, right,
we're gonna accomplish this by providing patches.
That's it, so your dev folder
is going to have a certain number of patches
that will change things
to match what the dev should have.
Staging folder is gonna do the same thing.
They're gonna have a bunch of patches
for the staging environment,
and the same thing goes for production.
So let's take a look at this in action.
So I've got the same directory structure,
and in my base folder
I have my nginx-depl.yaml file.
And here I've set the replicas to 1.
And let's say on a per-environment basis,
I wanna change this value.
So, to get this set up,
the first thing that we need to do
is we need to define our kustomization.yaml file
in our base folder.
And this is just a regular kustomization.yaml file,
and you can see we're just importing the resources
like we normally do.
Nothing special up to this point.
Now where things get interesting is in the overlays.
So if we take a look at the kustomization.yaml file
in the dev folder,
you're gonna see something new that we haven't seen.
We've got this bases property.
So what is that?
Well, we're basically telling this kustomization.yaml file,
how do I get to the base directory
with all of the base configs?
So we just have to provide the relative path to that folder.
So, relative path means
how do I get there from this kustomization.yaml file.
Since this file is in the dev folder,
we have to go up two directories
and then into the base directory.
So if you guys aren't familiar with this syntax,
if you see two dots and a slash,
that means go up a directory.
So we see two dots and a slash,
so that means we go from the dev folder
to the overlays folder,
and then we have another two dots and a slash,
so that means we go from the overlays folder
to the k8s folder,
and then we go into the base directory.
Once that's defined, Kustomize will look
for the kustomization.yaml file in the base directory
to know all the resources it should be importing.
And then we're gonna provide a patch.
So let's say we wanna update
the replicas to a value of 2,
and that's all you have to do.
That is the entire concept of overlays.
You see, we're not really learning anything new.
We've already learned everything that we need to learn.
It's just a matter of providing patches
on a per-environment basis.
And the same thing goes for production.
We're gonna provide the path to the base folder,
and then we're gonna update
and provide a patch to update the value
to be of 3 for the replicas count.
Now overlays is a simple concept,
and we've kind of already covered everything
that we need to do, right?
That's really all we need to know about overlays.
It's just a matter of importing the base configs
and then providing patches.
But I wanna make sure that you guys don't think that,
you know, overlays can only have patches.
We can actually do a little bit more.
So in your overlay folder,
what can happen is,
you're gonna have your kustomization.yaml file,
and that's going to have all of your patches.
But in one of these environment folders,
in your overlay folders,
you can have new configs
that weren't defined in your base folder.
So in this example, I have a grafana-depl.yaml,
and you'll notice that doesn't exist in the base folder.
So this means that in my production environment,
I'm going to add a Grafana deployment
that isn't available in any of my other environments.
And so I just wanted to highlight the fact that
in these environment-specific folders,
you can add as many brand new resources as you want.
You don't have to just modify preexisting ones,
you can use new ones.
And so the way that this would look like
in your kustomization.yaml file is,
under the resources section,
we just import it like a regular file.
So we have our bases, we have our patches,
and then we import our resources
that are in our current folder.
So, just something to keep in mind,
you can add new resources inside your overlay folder.
So one final note,
I wanna make sure that you guys don't think that
we're kind of forced into a certain directory structure.
In fact, kustomize gives you a lot of flexibility
in how you wanna structure your Kubernetes configs.
So you can break it out into subfolders.
So your base folder can be broken out into,
you know, extra subdirectories based off of features
like we've done before,
and you could break it out however you want to.
Don't think that you just have to jam everything
under the base directory.
And the same thing goes for your overlays.
If you wanna break it out into features as well,
you can do that as well.
And remember, these subdirectories
don't have to match up with what the base directory is.
They can be completely separate.
They can follow their own patterns.
It's completely up to you,
just make sure that you have
the resources being imported properly
into the proper kustomization.yaml files.

--- Lab: Overlay ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Components ---

(upbeat tone)
-: In this lecture, we're gonna take a look
at a customized feature called, Components.
And so, a component provides the ability
to define a reusable piece of configuration logic
that can be included in multiple overlays.
And so, these are gonna be really useful in situations
where you have an application
that supports multiple optional features
that need to be enabled only in a subset of the overlays.
And that's important to understand,
a subset of the overlays.
Let's say we have a certain set of configurations
that we need to enable a certain feature.
If we wanted it enabled across all of the overlays,
we would just put it in our base configs.
But let's say we didn't want it enabled
in all of our overlays, only in a subset of them.
Well, we could do that pretty easily
just by defining them in each one of the overlays.
But then, now we're copying and pasting all of the configs.
And so, that's not a scalable solution.
We usually try to avoid copying
and pasting things like that.
'Cause a lot of times it leads to some config drift.
If you make changes in one,
you forget to make changes in the other.
So components are just reusable blocks
of Kubernetes configs, that's all it is.
Don't complicate it, it's just all of the resources
for a specific feature, all of the patches,
all of the config maps, secrets,
and any other Kubernetes related configs
associated with the feature.
They go into a component
and then you can enable it in multiple overlays, that's it.
So let's take a look at a visual example
because I think once you visually see how all of this
fits together, you'll have a much better understanding
of how components work.
Now, let's say our application can be deployed
in three different variations.
We've got the development variation,
the premium one for premium customers,
and then a self-hosted version for any one of our customers
that wants to self-host our application.
So we've got those three folders
and those would represent the three different overlays
in a customized application.
And then we obviously have our folder
for the base configuration
that's gonna be shared across all three overlays.
Now, let's say our application
has a couple of optional features,
and one of those is caching.
And let's say that only the premium
and the self-hosted version of our application
should have caching enabled.
And for caching, in this case, let's say we would need
to enable a Redis database as well as you know,
all the configurations associated with Redis
so that we can implement caching in our application.
So only these two versions are gonna have caching enabled.
And then let's say we also want a external database service
like a Postgres database,
and that should only be available for development
and the premium versions of our application,
so these two guys.
So this is going to create a little bit of an issue
'cause we have these individual features
that only apply to a certain subset of our overlays.
So let's take a look at caching as an example.
So we're writing out all of our Kubernetes configs
for our caching functionality,
and we're trying to figure out where exactly do we put it
in our folder structure.
The first thing you're thinking is,
we put it in our base configuration directory.
And the problem with doing that is, all three overlays
will get the configuration, but remember, only self-hosted
and premium should get the caching configuration,
we don't want development to get it.
So putting it in the base folder is not an option.
So what else can we do?
Well, we can copy the caching configuration
in both of the premium and self-hosted overlays,
and that would work just fine.
However, if you make changes in one of the folders,
you'd have to remember to make changes in the other one.
And let's say we over time decide
to add a few more variations
to how we can deploy our application.
We would have to remember to copy it into all of those.
So like most other things like developing any applications,
you wanna avoid copying and pasting whenever you can.
And so, that's why components were created.
They were kind of created
so that we could have a reusable block of code
that we can apply in several different overlays.
So we could take our caching configuration,
all the Kubernetes config for that,
and create a component, a customized component,
and then we can just import that component into all
of the different overlays that should be using it.
So let's take a look at how that would work.
So we've got the exact same folder structure
with our three overlays and our base configuration,
but now we're gonna create an extra folder
and we're gonna store all of our components here.
And there's going to be two different components,
caching and database.
So inside the caching folder,
we're gonna have all of the Kubernetes configs
that are associated with the caching feature.
So like I said, that's going to be
probably like a Redis instance
with all of the configurations and secrets
for the authentication side of our Redis database,
as well as anything else that we need
for our Redis database.
As well as, we're gonna have a folder
for our external database feature.
And that's going to contain all of the configs that we need
to implement that specific feature.
So they're all isolated into their own folder.
Then what we can do is,
all of the overlays that need the caching functionality,
they can just import that component.
So they just have one line in their configs that say,
"Hey, I want to import caching."
And then for all of the overlays that need the database,
they can just import the database component.
So all of the logic for the caching functionality
sits in one spot, in that caching folder.
And all of the logic for the external database functionality
sits in the database folder inside the components directory.
And that way we get to write it only once
and then we could import it
into as many overlays as we want.
So let's see how we can implement a component.
Now if we take a look at our example project structure,
we've got a couple of things that we've already seen before.
We've got the base directory
that's going to contain all of the base configurations
for all of our overlays.
And we've got our kustomization.yaml file
as well as one deployment configuration in there as well
for our API.
In the bottom, we've got our overlays.
So there's the same three overlays that we have,
the dev, the premium, and the standalone.
And these are just simple overlays.
They just got their kustomization.yaml files,
no other extra resources.
And then finally, in the middle,
we've got our new components folder.
So this is going to be the folder
that contains all of our individual components.
And you can see that we've got two different components.
We've got the caching component and the database component.
So if we take a look at one of these,
we'll focus on the database,
but the caching is identical almost.
You'll see
that there's a couple of different files in there.
So first of all, we've got our kustomization.yaml file,
that's a given, but then we've got two other files.
So I've got a deployment-patch.yaml,
and a Postgres-depel.yaml.
So what are these files?
Well, the Postgres-depel.yaml
is a deployment for a Postgres database.
So within the database folder or any component folder,
we're going to have a list of all of the resources
that this feature needs.
So I took a look at the feature
and I realized the only thing I need to create
from a Kubernetes perspective is,
I need to have a Postgres database.
So I have a Postgres deployment
inside the Postgres-depl.yaml.
So I'm just creating all of the resources I need
to get the external database functionality to work.
Now, if we take a look at the kustomization.yaml file,
the first thing that you'll notice is the apiVersion
and the kind are different.
Because this is a component,
we have to change the version to the one listed there,
and the kind to be component,
just something to keep in mind.
The next thing that we have to do is,
we have to import the resources
that we created for this component.
So in this case, it's just the Postgres deployment.
I also figured that since we have a database,
we probably need to store a secret for the database
so that we know what the password is.
So I've defined a secret for the password.
And then finally, we have all of our patches.
So when you have a feature,
you may need to go in and change some things
that are in the base configuration folder.
So obviously we have our API-depl.yaml
in our base directory, and we need to go in
and add an environment variable in there
so that it knows what's the password
to connect to the new database
for our external database feature.
So if we take a look at the deployment-patch.yaml file,
you can see this is a strategic merge patch.
And we're going to update the API-deployment
in our base configuration,
and we're gonna add a brand new environment variable,
and that's going to be the database password.
The final thing that we have to cover
is the kustomization.yaml file in the overlays.
So we have to import the components that we created.
So if we take a look at the kustomization.yaml file
in the dev folder,
we're going to import the database component
because as I mentioned, this specific deployment model
or this variation for dev
makes use of the external database feature.
So how do we actually import a component?
It's very simple.
So if we take a look at the top,
we've got the importing of our base,
that's just usual customization configuration.
But then below that, you can see the component section.
So that's going to provide the path to the component
that we want to make use of in this overlay.
So we provide the path to the database component.

--- Lab: Components ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Troubleshooting - Section Introduction ---

-: Hello and welcome to this section.
In this section, we look at
some of the troubleshooting techniques for Kubernetes.
We start with troubleshooting application failures,
then move on to troubleshooting control plane failures,
and then to worker node failures,
and finally network related issues.
This section is full of hands-on labs
where you are given a broken cluster
and are asked to troubleshoot and fix issues.
Good luck.

--- Application Failure ---

Throughout this course, we've actually worked on a number of troubleshooting exercises with respect
to the topic we were going through at that point in time.
So a lot of troubleshooting is already covered.
We will go through an overview of troubleshooting techniques and procedures, and work on some more
practice tests in this section.
We'll start with application failures.
Let's take a look at a two tier application that has a web and a database server.
The database pod hosts a database application and serves the web servers through a database service.
The web server is hosted on a web pod and serves users through the web service.
It's good to write down or draw a map or chart of how your application is configured before you start.
Depending on how much you know about the failure.
You may choose to start from either end of this map.
But remember to check every object and link in this map until you find the root cause of the issue.
Say in our case, users report some issue with accessing the application.
First, we start with the application front end.
Use standard ways of testing if your application is accessible.
If it's a web application, check if the web server is accessible on the IP of the node port using curl.
Next, check the service as it discovered endpoints for the web pod.
In this case, it did.
But if it did not, then you might want to check the service to Pod Discovery.
Compare the selectors configured on the service to the ones on the pod.
Make sure that they match.
Next, check the pod itself and make sure it is in a running state.
The status of the pod, as well as the number of restarts, can give you an idea of whether the application
on the pod is running or is getting restarted.
Check the events related to the pod using the describe command.
Check the logs of the application using the logs command.
If the pod is restarting due to a failure, then the logs in the current version of the pod that's running
the current version of the container may not reflect why it failed the last time.
So you either have to watch these logs using the dash F option and wait for the application to fail
again, or use the previous option to view the logs of a previous pod.
Next, check the status of the DB service as before.
And finally check the DB pod itself.
Check the logs of the DB pod and look for any errors in the database.
There are some more tips documented in the Kubernetes documentation page for troubleshooting applications.
This will help in upcoming practice tests as well as in the exam.

--- Lab - Application Failure ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Application Failure : (Optional) ---

-: Hey,
so let's go through this practice test on troubleshooting
application failure.
So the first question is,
a simple two tier application is deployed in the alpha name
space.
It must display a green webpage on success.
So click on the app tab at the top of your terminal to view
your application.
So I can click here to open the application,
and I see that it is indeed in a failed state.
So if I look at the error message here,
we can see some of the environment variables, which,
which we can use for while troubleshooting, but it says,
Can't connect to MySQL server on MySQL service 3306.
Name does not resolve.
So basically it looks like this web application is unable to
reach the MySQL service because the name, there's some,
some issue with the name is not able to resolve it.
So let's look at this architecture diagram.
So here, so it's a two-tier application.
So you have the web service here and you have the database
service here, and then you have the user accessing it.
So we know that this is most likely a deployment or a pod.
The web application is on 8080,
and then you have this web service which is on 8080.
And then this is the node port that the users are accessing,
which is 30081.
And then you have the MySQL service,
which is a,
which is a service that the web application use tries to
connect to.
And this is the MySQL pod.
Now looking at this state.
So we know that the web application loads, it's,
it's failed, the application is failed,
but at least the interface loads.
So looking at it,
this area seems to be okay.
Okay, because this port 30081,
this is the port that we are on.
So 3081, so that's good.
So this patch looks okay.
This web service has loaded the application.
So this also looks okay.
So there's some issue in this area.
The application is unable to reach the MySQL service at this
name or at this port.
So let's first take a look at,
at the application.
So it's in the alpha name space.
So we're gonna do a kubectl, we get pods, dash name,
space alpha.
And so we're gonna work,
we're gonna run a lot of commands in the alpha name space.
So it's best if we switch our context and,
and set the alpha name space as the default name space,
because we don't want to be typing in the name space for
each command so let's do a kubectl config,
and let's check the help find out the command.
So we can use a set context.
So we're going to do a set text,
and then let's check the help.
And what we want to do is we wanna set the name space,
we're gonna use a set context, and then the current context.
So we wanna set the name space of the current context to the
name space equals alpha.
Okay?
So that's modified.
So let's try,
we've gotta just get pods now and we see that we can see the
pods in the current name space.
So as we suspected,
the web application is a deployment.
So let's do a deploy.
So the web app is a deployment, and the SQL server is a,
is a pod, and we also have services.
And so the SQL server has a, the,
MySQL service and the web application has the web
service.
Okay
So one way to, another way to test the,
if the web application is accessible or not,
is basically at this level of test is to do a curl and then
to gonna do a local host because it's accessible on the node
port and the port is 3081. And we can see the kind of,
you know, this in a,
in a text format and we can see that database connection has
failed and can't connect to MySQL server
on MySQL service.
So we're gonna look more into this area, right?
So let's see, let's look at the deployment.
We're gonna do a kubectl,
we're gonna do a kubectl describe deployment web app
about MySQL.
So that's the deployment name.
And here we see that we have the template,
the image is simple web app.
MySQL port is 8080.
And these are some of the environment variables.
So the database host is MySQL service, the user is root
and the password is this password.
So the host is MySQL service.
So let's look at the service called MySQL service,
Let's do a get service.
And we see that the name of the service is not MySQL service
It's instead MySQL, right?
So that seems to be the problem here.
So this,
and this should match because from within this application
is gonna try and reach a service by the name MySQL service.
And this doesn't look like that.
So that seems to be the problem.
So what we're going to do is we're gonna fix that.
So let's do, let's try and edit the service.
And we can't edit the service name,
but let's give it a shot.
All we want to do is change this to MySQL service,
right?
So let's try and save that.
Now, it's not going to allow you to save that,
but the changes we made is in this temporary file.
So this is what we need.
So here you have the service and you have the,
MySQL service and everything else seems to be as,
as what we want.
So the port numbers are there,
selector is there,
or another approach we could do is to just delete the
service and export or expose the service,
the MySQL service again.
But for now,
we could just go ahead with this.
So we could do a kubectl
delete as we see, and delete the MySQL service.
Then we're going to create SVC.
Nope, we're gonna create using this file.
Okay, let's check service now.
And we see that the MySQL service has now been created
on port 23306.
Okay?
So let's go ahead and check this.
Okay, when you check this application, it's now Success
check our work.
Okay, so that's successful,
let's proceed to the next one.
Okay, so in this one,
the same two tier application is deployed in the beta name
space and it must display a green web page on success.
Click on the app.
So let's click on this app to see
the status.
And as you can see, it's in a failed state.
And if you look at this, you have the environment variables.
So the database hosts MySQL service, user is root,
password, and it says,
Can't connect to MySQL server on MySQL service 3306.
Now it says connection refused.
So it's this connection refused.
So let's take a look at it.
So first we're going to switch context to beta.
We're gonna do a set context config, set
context command, and then we're going to,
so the current context name space to beta
okay?
Now we're gonna do a get pods.
Pods, and we see the MySQL pod and you have the,
the web app pod.
So that's fine.
And then we also have services for the MySQL service and the
web app service.
If you look at this again, as before, the,
the Port 30081 seems to be correct.
So you can,
as we can access that here and this whole application loads.
So this whole thing should be good, right?
And again,
it looks like it's a connectivity issue with between
the web application and the MySQL server.
So this is what we have to verify.
Now, last time the issue was with the name,
but now looks like the name is correct,
it is MySQL service, but we will anyway,
also check the deployment on what is set,
describe Deploy web app MySQL.
And we see that the database host given here is MySQL
service and this is MySQL service as well.
So that's good.
Now let's just look at the service.
So this is good.
Now let's just focus on this.
So we're gonna do a describe service, MySQL service.
And we see selector is right,
the endpoints it has has detected the endpoint.
So that's 10.42.0.12.
Let's look at,
let's make sure that this endpoint is the pod,
which is the MySQL pod.
So let's do a kubectl get pods -OY
to see the IP of the pod.
And we see that the MySQL pod has an IP address, 10.42.0.12.
And this is 10.42.0.12.
So that's right.
But if you look at this right here, it says port 8080.
And so the IP is, okay, so then we check the port.
So it's port 8080, and 8080 is not
the port for the database.
So if you look at it here,
the port here is 3306 and not 8080.
So that seems to be the problem.
So let's do an edit as we see MySQL service.
And you can see the port here is 3306, which is right,
the target port given is 8080, and that is not right.
So that should be 3306 as well.
So let's edit that.
Let's make sure the changes took place.
Okay, so now is 3306, and let's check the endpoints.
And we see that the endpoint is now 10.42.0.12, 3306.
Let's now check our application and yep, can see that it's,
it's a success.
Let's check our work.
Okay, so we're two down.
Okay,
so the next question is the same two tier application is
deployed in the Gamma name space.
It must display green webpage and click on the app tab at
the top to view, okay, so it,
it looks like it's the same question.
So let's go and open the application.
Okay?
So just keeps spinning
and meanwhile we'll go here and here our work and switch
context to,
we'll switch to the gamma namespace, okay?
And let's check status of pods and let's check services.
So we have both the pods are running and the services are
there, but this doesn't look like it's loading.
So let's try and find out why.
So it looks like the issue is somewhere here.
The page itself isn't loading,
the service itself isn't loading.
So let's start looking at it right from here.
So the first thing to look at is this Port 30081,
because that is the,
the port that we are trying to access 30081, okay?
And it's now timed out.
So 30081.
So if you look at the service called web service,
we see that it's set to node port,
and the node port is 30081, so that's fine.
So that looks good.
Next thing is the service itself.
So let's check if the service has a endpoints.
So we're gonna do describe service, web service,
and we see the name, web service, name space is gamma,
has the right selectors and has
the endpoints.
10.42.0.14.
And the ports are 8080 and 8080.
So that looks right.
Let's make sure the IP address,
the endpoints are picked up correctly.
So this endpoint is 10.42.0.14,
and the web app is on 10.42.0.14 as well.
So that checks out.
So the next step is, so the web service is good,
Let's check the deployment itself.
So we do our kubectl get pods, we do
describe deployment web app, MySQL,
and we see that it has one desired and one available.
So that's fine.
The image is, looks correct,
the database host is MySQL service, user is root
password.
All of that seems to be okay, but it's still,
we're unable to do the deployment.
So let's check out the logs because it looks like the,
the web server isn't responding.
So let's do a logs
on the pod.
And this seems to be, okay, so this,
this application itself, it says it started,
it's available on this port.
And so that seems to be okay.
So however,
we are still not able to access the application.
So let's anyway,
go through and complete our checks because we assume that
it's going to be somewhere here.
But anyway, let's go down and complete our checks.
So the MySQL service is supposed to be on 3306.
So let's check that.
So we have the MySQL service and it's on 3306.
Let's check the endpoint,
describe MySQL service.
And here you have the endpoints,
but it looks like there are no endpoints.
So apparently the service hasn't detected MySQL pod as an
endpoint, so let's take a look at why that is.
So if you look at the selectors right here,
it says name equals SQL 00001, and for the pod,
so describe POD MySQL.
And we know that the labels for this is,
is name equals MySQL.
So that should be the selector not name equals SQL 0001.
And that's why it doesn't have any endpoints.
So let's go ahead and edit that, not the pod.
We're going to edit the service, MySQL service,
and we're going to change the selector to MySQL
then save that.
Okay, now we're going to do a describe pod,
no describe Service MySQL.
And we see that we have, we have the service now protected.
Let's go and check out our application.
Okay, so that's connected successfully.
So apparently,
even though we were not ab able to access the web
application,
that's because the web application is trying to access the
MySQL service and that service was not responding,
which is why the web application was not responding either.
So even though we thought that the issue was somewhere here,
we went through and we made sure that everything's fine and
we just went through the remaining
just to check and just to be sure.
And that's how we identified that the issue is somewhere
here, so that's,
that's another approach or technique that you should use.
If you're not really sure, I mean,
you start with an intuition on, you know,
where the issue could be, but if you don't seem,
you know, if you can't really figure out,
you just keep looking at the,
those things just to make sure that they're working as
expected.
Okay, so let's check our work
and let's wait for the next one.
Okay, so here the,
the same two-tier application is deployed in the Delta name
space, and it looks like it's the same setup.
So here we have, and it's in a fail state.
So let's first change our context to
Delta.
Okay?
Then let's check the pods and let's check our services.
So let's check the error message.
So the host is MySQL service user is SQL user.
Password is password.
It says can't connect to MySQL server on MySQL service.
3306 connection refused.
Okay, I wanna try that out again, just refresh it.
And it says Access denied for user SQL user
at 10.42.0.16 using password.
So it says Access denied for the user.
So, and here you can see the user details.
So the DB host has to be my service, the DB user is route.
And the password is password.
So let's check the,
the settings for that.
So the web application must access that.
MySQL service,
and this is where the credentials are stored.
So let's do a describe on MySQL,
describe deployment on MySQL.
Let's look at the settings.
So here you have the environment variables and you have the
host, which is MySQL service.
The user is, it says SQL user, but it's actually root.
And the password is password.
So this is, this seems to be the problem.
So let's edit that
and update the user to root.
Okay, and let's wait for the bot to be running.
So it's running already.
It refers to the page.
And that's success.
So that was the issue here.
Let's check that out.
And while the new one loads, let's close this one,
let's clear our screen.
Okay,
the next one is the same application is deployed in the
Epsilon name set in space.
It must do display a green web app webpage on success.
So let's open the webpage and we have a similar error
message.
So it says the environment variables, DB host,
MySQL service database.
It's not set users, SQL user.
And the password access denied for user SQL User, okay?
So that's kind of the similar error.
So let's take a look at it.
But first let's change the context to,
Epsilon, okay, and set the parts.
And we know that,
So it's a similar error message where it says Access denied
for SQL user, and that's what we just solve.
The user is not SQL user, it's
a root user, so let's go ahead and fix that.
Edit deployment, web app, SQL.
And so here we see the user is SQL user.
So let's change that to root.
Okay, let's check the bot, if it's running.
Let's refresh the page.
Okay,
so now the error message has changed and it says access
denied for user root.
Again, so the access is still denied.
But the user has now been updated to root.
Right?
So.
The user credentials are either set on the application
that's trying to connect to the database or the database
itself.
Right?
So we've already fixed it on the deployment here,
but now the issue could be here.
So let's check out the pod.
Because that's the only other place where anything
could be set.
And here we see additional details.
And here we have the environment variable and the MySQL root
password is set to something other than password, which
should be this.
So that needs to be changed.
So let's do a edit pod for MySQL
and let's change this password to.
BASWRD
save that, it's not going to allow us 'cause it's a pod.
So we're going to do a kubectl, replace,
replace force and give the file.
Okay, let's delete it.
It's up, it's running.
Let's try to refresh the page.
Hmm.
So now it'd says connection refused.
No, okay.
That was because we tried too early,
the pod was just being initiated.
So now at success.
So that was the issue.
Now another thing to note here is in this case, I mean,
you know, these are, it's very simple,
straightforward examples of setting environment variables,
but these could also be part of config maps.
So there could be another config map associated with the
MySQL service, which is how it is usually configured.
And so if that is the case,
then you should inspect the config maps as well.
Okay?
All right, let's get ready for the final one.
Okay,
so the same two tier application is deployed in the Zeta
name space.
So let's first set the context to Zeta
and let's check out the application.
Okay, so it says bad gateway right up front.
So let's start from here.
So we're assuming,
because it says we're not even able to access the web
service, we're gonna start right from the top.
So the,
the node port is 30081 because that's what we are trying to
access here.
And let's see the status of the services.
And we see that the web service is, has a node board,
but here you see it's not on 30081, it's on 30088.
So that's what we're gonna fix, edit service,
web service.
And the node board has to be 30081.
We'll save that and let's make sure that it's updated.
So it's 30081.
Okay?
So that's done.
We're now able to access the application at least now it
says access denied for user SQL, user using password.
So that something we have seen already.
So let's check out,
okay, let's look at the deployment,
describe deploy web app MySQL.
And we see that there are environment variables.
So MySQL service, SQL server, SQL user and password.
So let's edit that
to change it to root
Okay, so the new pod has been deployed.
Okay?
So now the username is updated, so access,
but it's still his access denied for user root.
So we have to
go down and check the,
the password configured on the MySQL service.
So let's do a describe pod MySQL.
You see that we have the password issue here,
the environment variables.
So let's edit that.
And this should be password, let's save that.
That's not going to go through.
So let's do a replace this.
Okay, let's wait for the pod to run.
Okay, so yep.
Now that's successful.
Check our work.
Okay, so that's about it.
I know that there's a little bit of repetition on the type
of questions and,
and that's really in case you didn't get it the first time
for you to just get that practice again and,
and get it the next time and build some confidence.
So, yep,
I hope that was a good troubleshooting session and we'll
have more coming up in the upcoming labs.

--- Control Plane Failure ---

In this lecture we will see different ways of troubleshooting control plane failures.
We start by checking the status of the nodes in the cluster, see if they are all healthy, then check
the status of the pods running on the cluster.
If we had control plane components deployed as pods in case of a cluster deployed with the kube ADM
tool, then we can check to make sure that the pods in the kube system namespace are running, or else
if the control plane components are deployed as services, as in our case, then check the status of
the services such as the kube API server, the controller, manager and scheduler on the master nodes,
and the Kubelet and kube proxy service on the worker nodes.
Next, check the logs of the control plane components again, in case of kube adm, use the kube control
logs command to view the logs of pods hosting the control plane components.
In case of services configured natively on the master nodes, view the service logs using the host's
logging solution.
In our case, we could use the general control utility to view the kube API servers logs.
This should be a good start.
For more tips, refer to the Kubernetes documentation page for troubleshooting clusters.
This will help in the upcoming practice test as well as in the exam.

--- Lab - Control Plane Failure ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Control Plane Failure : (Optional) ---

-: Okay, so in this video we're going to work
on troubleshooting control plane failure.
So the first question is, the cluster is broken.
We tried deploying an application, but it's not working
troubleshoot and fix the issue.
So before we begin, a quick tip
if you don't have the alias set already on your prompt
so you could do a alias, k equals kubectl.
And also if you don't have auto completion
then one thing you could do is
you could go to the Kubernetes documentation pages
search for kubectl cheat sheet
and then the first thing that comes here
is the kubectl completion bash.
So let's copy and let's run that.
And this basically gives you auto completion.
So you do a kubectl get
and then it automatically gives you the options.
The other thing is, so if you're setting an alias
you should do this as well to get the alias for
the short form for kubectl.
So I'm gonna set this as well,
that way I can just do kubectl get
and then yeah, order completion for the short form.
Okay, so we're gonna look at the status of the cluster.
So let's do a kubectl, get nodes
and we see that the nodes seems to be in a ready state.
So that's good.
There is, it says there are deployments.
So let's take a look at the deployments.
And we see that there is a app deployed, but it's not ready.
So there is one container or one pod in the deployment
but that pod is not ready.
So let's take a look at it.
Let's do a describe,
so you describe deployment app
and we see that it's one desired,
zero available, so there's, that's one unavailable
and there isn't anything here that's really helpful.
So here it says scale that replica set to one.
So let's take a look at the replica set,
get rs, we have one replica set.
Let's take a look at that.
Describe replica set app.
And we see that the desired is one,
but it's still waiting.
And here you have the events and it says creating pod.
So let's take a look at the pod
and we see that there is a pod created,
but it's in a pending state.
Let's take a closer look at that pod.
And we see the events have not started yet
but everything else seems okay
but it's in a pending state.
So when a pod is in a pending state, it's most likely,
that indicates that it has not been assigned a node.
So if you look at the node here, it's set to none.
That means the pod has not been assigned
to a node and the job
of assigning a pod to a node is scheduler's job, right?
So we have to look at the status of the scheduler.
So let's do a, and we know that scheduler runs
as a pod in the kube system name space.
And here you have the scheduler
and it has control plane at the end.
So that means it's a static pod
and its status is crash loop back off.
So let's take a look at the pod
in more detail in the kube system name space
and we're looking at the kube-scheduler.
Okay, so we see
at the bottom here that seems to be restarting quite often.
And then it says fail to start container
kube-scheduler error response from daemon,
OCI runtime create failed, starting container process
kube-scheduler, executable file not found.
So it says this executable is not found
obviously it looks like it's not, right.
So let's take a look at the options
or the command that are used to run this pod.
So here we can see that there is an incorrect command
that's wrong and that's the reason.
So we know that the kube-scheduler is a static pod.
So the file is in
TTC Kubernetes manifests
and we have the kube-scheduler.yaml file here.
So this is the manifest file for kube-scheduler
and within that there's a wrong command.
So let's go and edit that file
and then remove the extra characters.
And we're gonna save that and we'll see if we have
we'll see the status of the pod
and its in a creating container config error state.
Yep, it's now in a running state
and we'll just watch until, we just watch until it's ready.
So let's give it a few seconds.
Still not ready.
Let's take a look at the logs.
Okay, okay, so it's finally in ready state.
And let's take a look at the pods.
And we have the pod is now in ready stage.
Let's take a look at the deployment
and we have one of one ready.
Okay, okay, so that's, that's good.
Let's go to the next one.
Now it says scale the deployment app to two parts.
Let's do a kubectl.
So let's get the deploy.
And we have app with one pod, let's scale it up,
kubectl scale deployment app
and replicas is two, there's two pods.
Okay, even though the deployment was scaled to two
the number of pods does not seem to increase
investigate and fix the issue.
So let's check the status of pods and we see
that it's still just one, but we have the deployment here.
It says one of two, ready.
So let's take a look at the deployment.
Kubectl describe deploy app,
and we see the image set
we see scale that replica set to one, but we don't see it
the deployment, scaling up the replica set to two.
However, here we see the number of replicas to be two.
Two is the desired state and only one is available.
So the job of updating a deployment
the job of updating a replica set
or scaling up a replica set is the controller managers.
So it's the deployment controller
and all the controllers that as, as we know
the deployment controller, the replica set controller
they're all controlled by the controller manager.
So let's take a look
at the status of the controller manager.
So we're gonna do a kube system
and we see that the kube controller manager is
in a crash loop back of state.
So let's take a look at the kube controller manager.
So within the new system
we're going to describe this particular pod.
And we see that says back off, restarting fill container.
We don't see anything useful here in the events.
Let's take a look at it.
So here it says crash loop back off terminated error.
The exit code is one
and the command seems to be correct.
There's isn't anything at there.
So let's take a look at the logs.
So let's do a kubectl logs
this one in the kube system name space.
Okay, so here it says this particular file
there's no such file or directory.
So this file is not found.
Let's check if that file exists.
Of course that file does not exist
because there seems to be something wrong with it.
So let's check, let's check where this file is specified
in the kube controller manager.
So we know that the cube controller manager
is also a static pod.
So that means it must be
in the slash ADC Kubernetes manifests directory.
And then we have controller manager there.
So let's see, let's just grab for XXX
cause that's what we saw.
And here we have it specified.
So the kube config file is configured to this location
but let's see where the actual kube config file is, right?
So the actual kube config file
for the controller manager
is at atckubernetescontrollermanager.com.
Let's just verify the contents of that file,
let's do controller manager
and we see that this is indeed a keep config file.
Okay so that's the problem.
So we're going to edit the controller manager
manifest file to fix that issue.
So we're going to remove this XXXX that is not required.
We're gonna save that and we'll check the pod system.
It's in pending state.
So we're going to watch that and we'll give you some time
for the kube controller manager to be ready.
Okay, so it's now in a running state and it's also ready.
So let's take a look at the pods.
And we see that there are now two pods indeed.
Let's take a look at the deployments
and we see that there are two deployments.
Okay, let's check the status.
Okay, so we're breaking something now.
Okay, so something is wrong with scaling again,
we just tried scaling the deployment
to three replicas, but it's not happening.
So let's take a look at that.
Let's do a get pods.
It's only two, let's do a get deployment.
And it's two of three, so it looks like it's gone to three.
So let's check,
let's look at the deployment.
And we see that here we have scale
of the replica set to one, then two, which we did earlier
but it has not been scaled up to three.
So in the previous one we have learned that if
the scaling up isn't happening,
if the changes that we have applied on the deployment
aren't, isn't going into effect
then the culprit is usually the controller manager
because it's the controller manager
that is responsible for this.
So let's take a look at the controller manager again.
Okay, so we're going to look
at the logs of this pod controller manager.
So we're gonna do a kubectl logs, oh
this is the control plane controller manager
the kube system name space, and we see
that it says unable to load client ca file.
So the ATC Kubernetes PTICS cert is not available.
So let's try and find this file locally
and we see that we do have this file locally.
So yes, this file seems to be here
but it says it's not able to load it,
there's no such file or directory within
the kube controller manager.
So we know that the way that the cube control manager
or any other control plane component is set up
is that the certificate files are
on the control plane on the host.
And then we use volumes to mount
these directories within the same directory
within the controller manager, right?
So that's set up in the manifest file.
So let's take a look at the manifest file
and we're gonna look at your controller manager.
And we see that all of these
all of these that are configured here
so ATC Kubernetes, ATC Kubernetes PKI
these are all in fact on the host, but they're mapped
as a volume through to these containers.
And the way that's done is through volume mounts.
So we look at volume mounts here
and we can see there are multiple volume mounts.
So you have the CSSL certs, the CS certs
but what we want is the coordinate PKI volume.
This is what we are concerned about
because this is what it claims that is not available.
So here the mounting looks good
but the volume that is mounted is called K eight certs.
So let's take a look at the K eight certs volume.
So these are the volumes that are configured here.
And here we have the K eight certs volume
and this is the section for that.
And within this we have the path which is given at the top.
And here you can see that there's an incorrect path given.
So it says wrong PKI directory.
So we're gonna have to get rid of that
and add the right PKI directory
which is just PKI and just going to save that.
Let's take a look at the pod status now.
Okay, it seems to be in a running state
and so let's watch it
and wait until it is back up and running.
Okay, so it's now in a running state.
Let's take a look at the status of pods.
And we see that we have three pods indeed.
And if we take a look at the status of the deployment
we see that we have three out of three ready.
Okay, So that's the end of this lab.

--- Worker Node Failure ---

In this lecture we will see different ways of troubleshooting worker node failures.
Again, we start by checking the status of the nodes in the cluster.
Are they reported as ready or not ready?
If they're reported as not ready, check details about the nodes using the cube control.
Describe node command.
Each node has a set of conditions that can point us in a direction as to why a node might have failed.
Depending on the status, there are either set to true or false or unknown.
When the node is out of disk space, the out of disk flag is set to true.
When a node is out of memory, the memory pressure flag is set to true.
When the disk capacity is low, the disk pressure flag is set to true.
Similarly, when there are too many processes, the pressure flag is set to true.
And finally, if the node as a whole is healthy, the ready flag is set to true.
When a worker node stops communicating with the master, maybe due to a crash, these statuses are set
to unknown.
This can indicate a possible loss of a node.
Check the last heartbeat time field to find out the time when the node might have crashed.
In such cases, proceed to checking the status of the node itself.
If the node is online at all or is crashed.
If it's crashed, bring it back up.
Check for possible CPU, memory and disk space on the nodes.
Check the status of the kubelet.
Check the Cubelet logs for possible issues.
Check the Kubelet certificates, ensure they're not expired and they are part of the right group, and
that the certificates are issued by the right CA.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice test and practice fixing broken clusters.

--- Lab - Worker Node Failure ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab Solution - Worker Node Failure : (Optional) ---

-: Okay, so in this lab we're going to
practice troubleshooting worker node failures.
So we'll wait for the lab environment to be ready
and we'll get started.
While we wait, I'm going to set
the alias for kubectl.
Okay, so the first question is to fix the broken cluster.
So let's run up a get nodes
and we see that indeed there is something broken.
So node zero one is in a Not Ready State.
So let's see why that is.
Let's do a describe node, node zero one.
And here we see a set of events.
So all of these seem to be normal
so they're starting the kubelet.
All of these are good statuses
and the node itself is ready.
There's something missing.
So let's go to that node.
Let's just say node zero one, and we'll check the status.
So the first thing that we wanna check
on a worker node is the kubelet,
because we know the kubelet is the controller of a node.
And the kubelet is what helps in communication
between a worker node and the master
or the control plane node.
So let's do a check the service of the kubelet.
So service kubelet status.
And we see that it's loaded, but it's in an inactive state
so we don't know why it's in an inactive state.
So we're going to just try and start it.
So let's do a service kubelet start
and let's check the status again.
And we see that it's now in an active and running state.
Let's go back to the control plane
and let's do a quick kubelet get node.
Okay. And we see that both are in a ready state.
So I think that should fix that question.
Okay, let's go to the next one.
Okay, so the cluster is broken again.
Investigate and fix the issue.
So let's check the status again.
And we see that it's again, in an not ready state.
So let's check the status of the node.
Oh, zero one and go to full screen.
We see that all of these, all of these events are normal.
So that's, that's okay and there's nothing here either.
So let's go to the node
and check the status of the kubelet again,
service kubelets status.
And we see that it's in an activating state
and it looks like there is an exit code
and it's exited.
The status is 255.
So that means it's not.
There is something wrong in the process.
It's is not able to start.
So even if you do a service kubelet start,
it's not actually going to start the service
because there seems to be something wrong.
So let's check the status of the service again
and it's in an activating state.
So to look at the logs of a service,
do a journalctl-u and kubelet
and let's check the status.
So these are the logs, and let's look for
the latest of the most recent logs.
Okay, so we are here.
Let's go up.
So all of these seem to be an error from a previous error.
All these seem to be an error message.
And here you can see that there's an error that says
unable to load clientcfile/etckubernetes
picking wrong ca file.
There seems to be a wrong file, so let's
try and find that out.
So the, the kubelet configuration files are one
in the edc kubernetes
kubelet.com.
So that's one file.
But this is basically the kube config file
used by the kubelet.
So here you have the certificate, the contacts
and everything that the kubelet uses to
connect to the kubelet pa server.
So this is not the place where there's an issue.
It's basically the kubelet service itself, right?
So the kubelets service picks the options
from a file located var/lib/kubelet.
So there's something to remember.
And here you have a file called config.yamo.
So var/libkubeletconfig.yamo.
And within this file there are some properties
that are passed through to the kubelet.
And here you can see
there is this zero one C file right here
and that's the client ca file.
So it should be the correct file.
So let's find what the correct file is.
And there's the ca.cert file.
So that's what it should be ca.cert
instead of the wrong ca file.
So let's edit that
and put the correct ca cert,
save that.
And now we're going to restart the kubelet service.
And let's just check the status of the service now.
And we see that it's in an active running state.
Let's go back,
let's go back to the control plane node.
And let's check the status of the nodes
and we see that they're in a ready state.
Okay, so let's go to the next one.
Okay, so now the cluster is broken again.
So let's check and we see that yes,
it is indeed broken and node zero one is not ready.
So let's go to node zero one
and let's check the status of the kubelet.
And we see that, we see that it's active
and it's in a running state.
Okay, so let's check the logs
journalctc-ukubelet,
and let's go all the way to the end
and let's work our way backwards.
Okay? And let's see if there's something useful here.
So here you can see unable to register node
and you can see the control plane and dial
TCP 10 54, 132, 6553 connection refused.
So this seems to be the error that's
causing the remaining errors.
And if you look at it, it says connection refused to this.
And this is basically for the control plane that we have.
And it looks like this port number is incorrect
because we know that the control plane port number is
6443 and not 6553.
So that that could be the error.
So let's take a look at the kube config file used
by the kubelet.
So we saw that the cube config file used by the kubelet
is etc kubernetes and kubet.com.
So let's take a look at the contents of the file.
So here if you look at this, you see that right here
the control plane port number is incorrect.
So let's get that corrected.
And we'll set to 6443,
and we're going to do a service kubelet restart,
and service kubelet status.
You see that it's not in an active state.
Let's check the logs as well.
And we no longer see those errors
and it seems to be good.
Let's go back and
let's check the status of the nodes
and we see that it's now ready.
Let's check our work.
Okay, so that's the end of this lab.
So when it comes to troubleshooting worker nodes
always first check the status from here,
from the control plane.
And check whatever you can find from here.
And then go to each of the worker node that has the issue
and start with checking the kubelet service.
If the kubelet service is good, check the logs
of the kubelet service and continue your way from there.
Well, that's all for this lab.
Thank you.

--- Network Troubleshooting ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Practice Test - Troubleshoot Network ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lab  - JSON PATH ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Pre-Requisites - JSON PATH ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- JSON Path in Kubernetes ---

In this video, we will look at how to use Jsonpath in Kubernetes with the kube control utility.
We will start by discussing why you might want to use Jsonpath in the first place.
We will then look at viewing and interpreting kube control output in JSON format post, which we look
at the different steps involved in using Jsonpath with the kube control utility.
We then look at several jsonpath examples, and then go through loops, before finally looking at custom
columns and sort functionality of kube control.
Once done, you will go through a set of practice tests where you get to practice what you learned through
some fun and challenging exercises.
So let's get started.
Now, before you begin, you must know how to work with Jsonpath, so that's a prerequisite.
If you have never worked with Jsonpath queries before.
Check out the videos and practice tests on that first.
They're available for free on my YouTube or on the Code Cloud website.
If you have worked with it already, let's continue.
Also, it's good to first practice jsonpath on Kubernetes dataset so that you know how to navigate through
it before actually working on Jsonpath with kube control utility.
We also have a set of exercises on working with Jsonpath on Kubernetes dataset, so make sure you go
through that as well.
In this video, our focus will be on how to use jsonpath queries with the kube control utility.
So why jsonpath on the first place?
When you're working with production environments for Kubernetes, you will need to view information
about hundreds of nodes and thousands of objects like deployments, pods and replica sets and services
and secrets, etc. and you will be using kube control utility to view information about these objects.
You will often have requirements where you will need to print summary of different states about different
resources.
You will want to view specific fields of all resources, query data about the resources based on different
criteria, etc..
Viewing such information by going through thousands of these resources is an overwhelming task, which
is why kube control supports a JSON path option that makes filtering data across large datasets using
complex criteria and easy task.
But let's take a step back and understand how the kube control utility works.
We know that the kube control utility is the Kubernetes CLI.
Use it for reading and writing Kubernetes objects.
Every time you run a kube control command, it interacts with Kubernetes API through the kube API server.
The kube API server speaks the JSON language, so it returns the requested information in a JSON format.
The kube cube control utility on receiving the information in a JSON format, converts it into a human
readable format, and prints it out to our screen.
During that process, a lot of information that came in in the JSON format is hidden in an effort to
make the output readable by showing only the necessary details.
If you'd like to see additional details, you could use the dash o wide option with the kube control
get command.
This prints additional details, but again this is not complete.
There are still a lot more details that are not part of this output.
For example, the resource capacity available on on these nodes and the chains set on the nodes, the
conditions of the nodes, the hardware architecture, the images available on these nodes, etc..
Well, you can see them if you run the cube control describe command.
But what if you want to see it like a report?
For example, say, I'd like to see the nodes and their CPU counts in a tabular format like this.
Or the list of nodes and the taints set on them.
The architecture or say, print the list of pods and the images they use.
None of the built in commands can give me these in this format.
That's where Jsonpath queries can help.
With jsonpath queries, you can filter and format the output of a command as you like.
And that's what we will see in this lecture and in the practice exercises that follow this video.
In order to get started with Jsonpath in kube control, you must follow these four steps.
First, you need to know the command that will give you the required information in the raw format.
For example, if you need information regarding nodes, then you must use the kube control get nodes
command.
If you need information regarding pods, you must use the kube control get pods command.
We have seen a lot of these commands throughout this course, so that should be easy.
Once you identify the command, inspect its output in JSON format for this.
Add the option dash o JSON to the command.
It will print the output in a JSON format.
This is the same format of documents you worked with during the JSON practice test on Kubernetes objects
that I mentioned in the beginning of this video.
The next step is to look through the structure of the JSON document, and form the Jsonpath query that
will retrieve the required information for you.
For example, to get the image, you would use the query dot items of zero containers of zero dot image.
And finally, use the query you developed with the same kube control command.
To do that.
Use the JSON path option and pass in the same jsonpath query that you just developed.
Remember you must encapsulate the jsonpath query within a pair of single quotes and curly braces.
Like this.
We now have our kube control command with the Jsonpath query.
So if you're a beginner to jsonpath and to this kind of logic, then I would recommend strictly following
this approach where you first view the JSON version of the output, copy the output to a Jsonpath query
evaluator like jsonpath Dccom.
Then play around with it until you come up with the right Jsonpath query, and then move that query
to the kube control command.
With that, you should be able to come up with jsonpath queries to pull useful information like the
below.
A Jsonpath query of items of star dot metadata dot name with the cube control get nodes command gives
us the names of the nodes in the cluster, a query of items dot status dot node info dot architecture
returns me the hardware architecture of the nodes notes and status dot capacity dot CPU returns me the
count of CPUs on these nodes.
Finally, I can merge these queries together into a single command.
For example, I could use the first query to get the node names and add the query I used to get the
CPU count to it.
And that gets me both the results in a single command.
That's good.
And I can get any information from the JSON output, as long as I can figure out the right jsonpath
queries for it.
But that's still not pretty, is it?
That's not how I want it to look.
So let's look at some of the predefined formatting options.
In this I have two types of information in the same line.
I can insert a new line by adding the newline parameter in between the two queries like this.
The slash n is for new line and slash t is for tab.
We will now look at loops using ranges.
This may be a bit advanced for some users, so don't worry if you don't fully get it from a certification
and exam standpoint.
We've covered what we need, but I'd like to cover this as well before.
Before we wind up with the queries we have built so far.
We were able to get different sets of information like names of nodes, the CPU counts, etc. in this
format.
But this is not what we really want.
We want it to look like this one.
On the right.
The node names in one column and CPU counts in the other.
This is where we use loops to iterate through items in a list and print properties of each item.
We will focus on the JSON query part alone for now.
When I run the cube control get nodes command, I get a list of items, each item representing a node.
So I want to be able to say for each item or a node, print the node name, then insert a tab as a separator
and then print the CPU count followed by a new line character.
This will get me the results in the format I want to specify the for each statement.
Use the range keyword range items of star means for each item.
To print the node name, use the same query we built earlier.
Dot metadata dot name.
Then to add a tab, add the keyword.
Then to print CPU count, use the query dot status, dot capacity CPU and then to add a new line, add
the end keyword.
Finally, end the loop using the end keyword.
Merge it all in into a single line and pass it as a parameter to the Jsonpath option of the kube control
command.
You can also use Jsonpath for printing custom columns with kube control.
At times this is an easier approach when compared to using the loop method.
Let's take the previous example, where we used the Jsonpath option to print node names and CPU capacities.
What we really want is to print them as separate columns, one column with the node name and another
with the CPU count.
Instead of using the Jsonpath option directly with the command, you could use the custom columns option
of the kube control command.
The Custom Columns option takes a set of column name and Jsonpath options.
For example, for the first column, the column name is node.
The jsonpath corresponding to the node name is dot metadata dot name.
Note that you must exclude the items section of the query as the custom columns assumes.
The query is for each item in the list.
This prints the first column with the given column name and its data.
Similarly, you can add additional columns by adding additional column and jsonpath pairs separated
by a comma.
So we add the next column named CPU with its data at.
Status CPU.
Much easier and cleaner.
Again, for this tool, I would recommend first coming up with a jsonpath queries for each column and
then putting them together in the command.
Finally, Jsonpath can also be used while sorting objects by specifying the sort by option.
The kube control command comes with a sort by option, where you can sort the output based on the value
of a property from the JSON formatted properties of each item.
When you run the kube control get nodes command, specify the Jsonpath query we developed earlier,
as is in the sort by option to sort based on name or CPU count.
Well, that's it for this lecture.
Head over to the practice tests and practice working with Jsonpath and some advanced kube control commands.

--- Lab - Advanced Kubectl Commands ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lightning Lab Introduction ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Lightning Lab - 1 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Mock Exam - 1 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Solution - Mock Exam -1 (Optional) ---

Instructor: Okay, so what we're gonna do is
we're gonna walk through the solutions
for the mock exam one.
We're gonna start off with question one.
Now, question one,
it says that you have to create a pod
called mc-pod in the mc-namespace with three containers.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Now, if you want you can go to the documentation,
you can search for pod to see an example configuration
and it's gonna give you one.
And so here's one here.
So I'm just gonna copy this
or if you wanted to, you could also do kubectl run
and then you could do mc-pod
and then provide some random image.
We might as well use the image of the first pod.
So I'll just say enginx:1-alpine
and then I could do --dry-run
equals client and then I'll put it to a YAML file
and I'll just set it as question one
and that way we can make changes to it.
So now if I open question one,
we can see we have a base configuration.
All right, so I'm gonna go ahead
and start updating the field.
So the pod should be called mc-pod,
which we have,
we don't really need a label
because it doesn't really say anything about labels.
So I'm gonna remove that line
and then we'll just remove the creation timestamp.
Now, it says that the first container
should be named mc-pod-1
so let's set the name to be mc-pod-1
and it should use the nginx-1-alpine image,
nginx-1-alpine image.
So we have that,
but it says that we have to set an environment variable
node_name
and it should be set to whatever node
the pod gets deployed on.
So how do we do that?
So to set a environment variable, you do env,
and then you set the name of the environment variable,
which as per the question,
it should be node_name.
And then we have to set the value.
Now, this value
is kind of dynamic based off the node it gets assigned to
so to do that we say, value from
and you say fieldRef
and then you say fieldPath
spec.node name
And so that will give it the name of the node
and pass it into this environment variable.
Okay, so we have all of that done up to here.
Now we have to create a second container.
So we're gonna do the same thing.
Second container,
the name should be
mc-pod-2.
The image should be busybox:1
and what it should do is
it should continuously log the output
of the date command to the following file every second.
And so to do that
we'll say command.
And so we have to change what
the command is going to run within the container.
And here we'll just say "sh"
So this is how we log that date command,
we say "-c"
And then here we provide the command.
And I'm just gonna copy and paste this
because it's a little long.
Okay? And so basically while true,
which means it's gonna continuously do that,
run the date command and output it to this file
and it's gonna do it every second.
All right?
Then the next thing that we have to do
is the third container should have the name
mc-pod-3.
So let's go ahead and create that.
So if your mc-pod-3
and then the image should be busybox.
And then what we wanna do is,
let's see, what does it have to do?
So it should print the contents
of the date dot.file generated by the second container.
So this file here,
it should print the contents of that file
in stdout.
So we need for pod-3 in this case
to have access to the same file system as pod-1.
But right now, they're not gonna have the same file system
because there are two separate containers, all right?
So when he writes it to here, var/log/shared/date.log
this guy's not gonna have it.
So for them to have access to the same file system,
we have to set up a volume.
And it also says use a shared non-persistent volume.
So I'm gonna add a volume here.
So you just say volumes,
and then we'll give it a name,
we'll just call it shared-volume
and then what we wanna do
is we wanna look at this keyword non-persistent volume.
So a non-persistent volume
that we can use is called emptyDir.
So this will last the lifetime of the pod,
but then once the pod goes away,
you'll no longer have it
so it's just temporary
and it's not gonna actually persist.
But this will allow us to share the file system
between two containers in our pod.
And then at this point,
we can then mount it in our containers.
So for pod-2, I'm going to
mount it
doing volume, and there's a typo there,
so mounts,
this is gonna be name,
so what's the name of the volume? It's called shared-volume
and then we wanna set the mountPath
to where do we wanna mount it?
Well, let's do var/log/shared
because we just really care about that date.log file.
So I'll do var/log/shared.
And the nice part is I can just copy this
and then do that for the
third container as well.
Okay? So now,
pod-3
in var/log/shared,
he'll have access to the date.log
because it's all part of that emptyDir volume.
So now they can share the file system.
And so now what we can do is
we can actually print the contents of that file.
So we'll do command,
we're gonna change the command that runs in the container
"sh"
"-c"
and then the command is
we basically wanna tail that file.
So we'll do tail -f /var/log
/shared
/date.log.
Okay? And we can do that because once again,
we're mounting that volume in var/log/shared
so we have access to that date.log file.
And that should be everything that we need,
so let's go ahead and save this
and I'm going to apply it
and it looks like I have a typo.
So I'm gonna just open that up
and we can see that the typo is
right here
and it's gonna be the same thing here.
And then, now I will apply it
and we can see the pod was created
and if we wanna verify that everything's working,
let's go to pod-3
and let's take a look at the logs for pod-3
because it should be printing out the contents of that file.
So I'll do cube kubectl,
name of the pod, it's mc-pod,
I'll do kubectl logs,
then the name of the pod
and then we want to tell it
which container we wanna grab the logs for,
so we do -c
and we want mc-pod-3.
And then, I'll do a -f so we can follow the output.
And you can see it's outputting all of the dates
that are being printed by pod-2.
So that's all we have to do for question one.
Let's now move on to question two.
Okay, so for question two,
it says that this needs to be solved on node one
and we can go ahead and SSH to it.
So let's SSH to it now
and I'll just go node01
and it looks like we have to use these credentials.
So, we'll do SSH
and what we do is the username,
which is Bob@node01
so that'll try to authenticate us as Bob,
then I can put the password in here.
Okay, so we're now connected to node01 as Bob.
Now, as an administrator,
you need to prepare node01 to install kubernetes.
One of the steps is installing a container runtime.
Install this cri-docker as packaged here,
which is located in /root.
So let's take a look at /root.
I think I'm in slash...
Okay, so let's go to /root.
It says permission denied because I'm logged in as Bob.
So if you wanna just switch to the root user,
you could just do sudo su
and now you're gonna be the root user
and you can see that change in the prompt.
Now I can go to /root
and we can see that we have this package right here.
So we have to install that package
and ensure that the cri-docker service is running
and enable to start on boot.
So how do we install that?
Well, we could do
the dpkg command
-: i and then we do ./
and then the path to that file
that's gonna go ahead and install the package for us.
And after it's installed,
we have to now start the cri-docker service.
So I do systemctl start, cri-docker.
Now, if I do a systemctl status,
it should show that it's running
and then, this is what we wanna look for,
active running. That's good.
And then finally it says,
and it should be enabled to start on boot.
So to set it to automatically start on boot,
we have to change this to be
enable.
All right, so now it's enabled,
we've performed all the steps that we need to
for question two
and we shouldn't have to do anything else.
And if you wanna check if it truly is enabled,
you could do systemctl is -enabled
cri-docker
and we can see that it's enabled.
So everything should be good to go.
Let's move on to question three.
So for question four it says,
on the control plane node,
identify all the CRDs related to the Vertical Pod Autoscaler
and save their names into a file in /root
/vpa
-: crds.txt.
So let's move back to the control play node.
And so to see the all of the CRDs on our system,
you can do kubectl get crd.
And if you want to see which ones are associated
with vertical pod autoscaler,
well it's gonna have the name vertical pod autoscaler in it,
if you want, we can just grep for vertical
and that should give us everything we need
so we can see that we have two here.
So what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna copy
this and then I'm going to copy that
and then, I can
go to that file it told us,
which is /root/vpa-crds.txt,
we'll paste it in,
and we don't need this information
so it just wants the name
so I'm just gonna have that
and then we'll remove this as well.
Okay? And then we can go ahead and save that.
And that's all that we need to do for question three.
Let's now move on to question four.
All right, so for question four,
it says create a service called messaging-service
to expose the messaging application
within the cluster on port 6379.
So first, let's make sure that we actually had
that messaging service or the messaging pods.
I'll do kubectl get pod
and we can see if we have the messaging pod.
So to create a service for it,
we can either create a YAML file
or just use the command for it,
The imperative command.
I'm just gonna use the imperative command.
So we can do kubectl
expose
pod,
and the name of the pod, which is messaging.
And then, you specify what port and it says port 6379.
So I'll say --port=6379.
The name should be messaging-service.
Okay?
And then it says that the application
should be accessible within the cluster.
So that means you can only access the service
in the cluster not from outside the cluster,
which means that it should be of type clusterip.
That's gonna be the default type of a service.
So we don't need to add anything else
and we can just run this as is.
So now if I do kubectl get service,
we have the messaging service
and if I do kubectl describe,
and actually I'm gonna do kubectl get pod -o wide
so we can see the IP address of the pod.
And then if I do a kubectl,
describe
service,
messaging-service,
right? You could see
one of the endpoints 172.17.0.9.
So the service is now connected to the pod
and it's gonna forward traffic to that pod.
Let's now go to question five.
So question five says,
create a deployment named hr-web-app
using the image kodekloud/webapp-color
with two replicas.
Okay, so for this
we can do this one of two ways.
If you want to, you could search for deployment
and in the docs,
if you go to the documentation
you'll see that
it'll give you an example of how to create a deployment
or we can use the imperative command,
which a lot of times is a lot easier
though in this case,
this is a very simple configuration.
We could just use the imperative command.
So I could do kubectl,
create deployment,
the name should be hr-web-app.
And then, the image should be
this one right here.
And then the replicas, we do --replicas=2.
And so now if I do kubectl,
I'll get a deployment,
we can see we're still waiting for it to
deploy and we can see if we've got two available.
So everything's up and running,
it's gonna wrap up question five.
Okay, so for question six,
a new application origin is deployed
and there's something wrong with it,
identify and fix the issue.
So there's... let's take a look.
So if I do kubectl get pod,
we could see we have the orange pod
and we could see that we see the init crash loop back off.
So clearly there's a init container
and it seems to be crashing.
So let's take a look at that pod.
We'll do describe pod orange
and let's just start at the top and just work our way down.
So status pending, that's obviously not a good thing.
We keep going down.
So everything else kind of seems normal
and then we have our init container
and our init container,
we could see that state is terminated
and reason is error.
So exit code 127.
So that's not good because remember
for us, for our main container,
if we go down here the orange container,
for it to run, we need the init container
to complete successfully.
This got terminated due to an error.
So if that happens, the pod's not gonna work,
the orange container isn't gonna start.
So we have to figure out why the init container
did not run successfully.
So if we take a look,
and obviously since it crashed,
it's gonna get continuously get restarted,
which is what the pod's designed to do.
It'll keep restarting the init container
until it finally completes successfully
and then it can run the orange container.
So if we see the command here,
so we can see it's running sh -c
and then, uh-oh,
we can see right here,
this is probably the problem,
it's running this sleep two
and that looks like a typo.
Now, that may not be typo,
maybe there is a program called "sleeeep" with four e's.
If we want, we can take a look at the logs
inside the pod to see what's happening.
So if I do kubectl get,
if I do logs, orange and then -c
and then what's the init container's name,
it's just init my service,
this is gonna show us the logs for that init container
and we could see the output,
which is sleep not found.
So there's no program called sleep.
So that's the problem.
And so as you probably expected,
this is the issue with the typo, it should just be two e's.
So let's go ahead and fix that.
Now, I just wanna make sure that this isn't part of a
replica set
or a deployment
doesn't look like it.
So what we're gonna do is I'm gonna do a kubectl
get pod orange
-: O yaml
piper two a file,
call it question6.yaml.
Then I'm gonna open question6.yaml
and we're going to fix this.
So where is that init container?
Right here.
Remove two of the e's
and then we can do kubectl replace
-: f
question6.yaml
and then we do a --force.
And so this is just a shorthand way
of deleting the old orange pod
and then applying this file. So if you do the replace,
it's gonna do both of them at the same time.
So this will be a little bit quicker.
So you could see you deleted it, replaced it,
and then now if I do a kubectl get pod,
we could see it's in the initial, the init stage
and then now we can see it's the running stage.
So we have now successfully finished
fixing the orange pod, it's now up and running.
Let's now move on to question seven.
So for question seven it says expose the hr-web-app
created in the previous task
as a service named hr-web-app-service
and make it accessible on port 30082
on the nodes of the cluster.
Okay, so right there, basically,
there's a couple things happening.
So we have to create a node port service for this deployment
that we had created earlier
and it should be node port listening on port 3082.
And it tells us the web application listens on port 8080.
So let's take a look.
We've got
the hr-web-app here.
So once again we could just copy this and then make changes
or if you want to kind of speed up the process,
we could just run the imperative command.
So I'll do kubectl expose,
we're gonna expose a deployment
and it's gonna be the hr-web-app.
This time we're gonna set the type=NodePort
because we want it to be accessible at from
outside the cluster on port 30082.
So I'll say node port.
And then the port
that the service is gonna listen on
this is going to be port 8080.
And then the name of the service is going to be
hr-web-app-service.
And I'm gonna do a --dry-run
=client -o yaml
and I'm gonna pipe it to a file
so I can make one quick change.
So I'm gonna take a look at the file that I generated
and what we wanna do is we wanna change the node port.
And so here, I'm going to change the node port.
So I'll say nodePort,
and that's gonna be 30082.
We'll then save this, I'll do kubectl apply.
Okay? And then if I do kubectl describe service
hr-web-app-service,
we should have two entries
because there's two pods in this case.
All right? And so that's all we need to do
for question seven.
Let's now move on to question eight.
So question eight says,
create a persistent volume
with the following specifications.
So we have to call it pv-analytics,
provide storage of a hundred mebibytes,
access mode, rewrite many,
and we have to use the type host path.
And this is the path that it's going to store the data
on the local node.
So if you don't know how to create a
persistent volume off the top of your head,
remember you always have access to the documentation.
I always take a look at the documentation,
even when I took the exam myself.
It just makes it so much easier
because you could just scroll down
and there should be an example config,
not there.
Let's see if I could find it.
That's a persistent volume.
Here we go persistent volumes.
So this is an example config,
we're gonna change a lot of it.
So it's okay if it looks a little different
than what you want it to be.
So I'll just call this question8.yaml,
we'll paste that in,
and then just start changing the properties.
So the first thing that we wanna do is change the name.
The name is going to be pv-analytics.
Capacity
100 MI
doesn't really say anything about if we go to access mode,
this should be ReadwriteMany.
So I will change this from read write once to many.
It doesn't say anything about
persistent volume reclaim policy.
So I will delete that.
It doesn't say anything about storage class,
so I will delete that.
It doesn't say anything about mount option,
so I'm gonna delete that.
And then, it's not gonna be of type nfs,
so I'm gonna delete that.
And it's going to be of type host path.
So we say host path
and then we specify the path,
which is gonna be /pv/data-analytics.
All right? And that should be everything.
We've got the capacity,
we've got the access mode,
and then the host path
so we could save this
and then apply this.
Now, if I do a kubectl pv,
should be there.
We could see it's an available state.
So everything looks good
and it's gonna wrap up question eight.
So let's now move on to question nine.
All right, so for question nine
it says create a horizontal pod autoscaler
with the following name
for the deployment called kkapp-deploy
in the default name space with the webapp-hpa.yaml file
located on the root folder.
So there's already a file for us.
So if we take a look at /root/webapp,
you can see we've already got a base config
for a horizontal pod autoscaler.
So it's telling us to use that.
And what we wanna do is ensure that the HPA
scales the deployment based on CPU utilization,
maintaining an average CPU usage of 50% across all pods
and configure the HPA to cautiously scale down pods
by setting a stabilization window of 300 seconds
to prevent rapid fluctuations.
So,
once again, we can always use the documentation.
So there's two files here.
We've got horizontal pod autoscaling,
so this is gonna go over the basics
of setting up horizontal pod autoscaling.
And then we also have a walkthrough.
So this is gonna just do a full walkthrough on
how to set everything up.
I definitely recommend you take a look at this.
This is gonna cover everything you need to know,
but let's go ahead and make the changes
that it wants us to make. So I'm gonna open up this file.
So first of all,
the name should be webapp-hpa,
which is this one.
It's going to be in the default namespace,
so that looks good.
And it's going to apply to a deployment called kkapp-deploy,
which it does.
So it set up all of that for us
and it already provided a minimum replicas
and a maximum replicas.
So now we have to configure it so that
it maintains an average CPU usage of 50% across all pods.
So let's do that.
So here we're gonna say metrics
and we're gonna say of type resource,
and then we'll say the resource,
the name is gonna be cpu.
Target.
This is going to be type utilization.
And then we say the average utilization
is going to be 50.
And so that's going to cover this requirement right here.
And then we have to configure the HPA
to cautiously scale down pods
by setting the stabilization window to 300 seconds.
So how do we set the stabilization window?
Well, if we take a look at the docs
and just look for a stabilization,
and this is how we set the stabilization.
So we do behavior,
scale down, stabilization window seconds,
and then whatever time it specified.
So I can just copy this
and then I'm gonna go right here,
paste it.
So behavior, and it looks like it messed up the formatting.
So this should be indented over
and this should be indented over
and it should be 300 seconds.
So we can just leave it as that value.
And that should be everything that we need.
So we can now do a kubectl apply,
it got created.
And if I do a kubectl get HPA,
we can see our HPA,
we can see 50%
minimum pods, two, max pods, two.
And so that's going to wrap up question nine.
Let's now move on to question 10.
All right, so for question 10,
we have to create a Vertical Pod Autoscaler
with the following name
for the following deployment in the default namespace,
the VPA should automatically
adjust the CPU and memory request of the pods
to optimize resource utilization.
Ensure that the VPA operates in auto mode,
allowing it to evict and recreate pods
with updated resource requests as needed.
Okay, so what we need to do,
let's create our YAML file.
And so we we'll provide the base configuration,
I'm just gonna paste this in.
So the API version for a vertical pod autoscalers
autoscaling.k8s.io/v1.
The kind is gonna be a VerticalPodAutoscaler.
Then we have to provide the usual metadata.
So the name,
this is gonna be analytics-vpa.
If you wanna provide a namespace,
this one's gonna be in the default one.
Then we have to provide the spec.
So we do the targetRef
apiversion.
So remember we're gonna point it to a deployment.
So this should be apps/v1.
Kind should be deployment,
and then the name should be
analytics-deployment,
right?
That's the name they provided right there.
And then, we want to set the
update policy
to be update mode set to
auto, all right?
And that's going to satisfy that condition,
and that should be everything that we need.
So where we can then go ahead and just do a kubectl apply.
And that's going to create our VPA.
All right, let's move on to question 11 now.
So for question 11, it says,
create a Kubernetes Gateway resource
with the following specifications.
So I'm gonna go to the documentation
and I'm going to search for gateway.
And we're gonna take a look at the documentation
and we're gonna look for the gateway.
So there's the gateway class.
That's not what we want.
We want the gateway.
So this is an example configuration.
I'm gonna just grab this
and we can use that as a template.
I'm gonna paste this in
and we can just update the values accordingly.
So the name should be web-gateway.
The gateway class name should be nginx.
The... Oh, the namespace,
we definitely gonna add that.
So namespace should be nginx-gateway,
and then the listener should be Protocol HTTP.
We've got that.
The name should be HTTP.
We already have that.
And the port should be port 80.
So we don't actually have to change anything else.
That's all we need.
So this is a really simple question.
We can just apply this now.
And if you wanna verify it,
you can do kubectl get gateway,
and it should be in the nginx-gateway namespace,
and we can see that right here.
All right, and so now let's move on to question 12.
All right, so for the final question, it says,
one coworker deployed an nginx helm chart
called kk-mock1,
and the kk-ns namespace on the cluster.
And new update is pushed to that helm chart,
and the team wants you to update the helm repository
to fetch the new changes.
After updating the helm chart,
upgrade the helm chart to version 18.1.15.
Okay, so let's break this down step-by-step.
We have a nginx helm chart
that's been deployed to our cluster.
Let's just take a look and see it real quick.
So I'm gonna do helm list.
Okay, we don't see anything,
but that's because it's in the kk-ns namespace.
So I'm gonna do -n kk -ns
namespace,
and you can see the release here in this case.
And so you could see the chart is using,
it's called, nginx 18.1.0.
It's saying use 18.1.15.
We have to update the all of the repos
so we can grab the latest version.
So I'll do helm repo.
First, let's see all of the repos that we have.
Okay, so we have this one repo called kk-mock1.
I'm gonna do a
helm repo update.
So it's gonna update it
and grab all the latest charts for us.
And it finished.
Now, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do a helm search,
gonna search our repos,
and I'm gonna search for something called nginx
and I'm gonna just maximize this for us.
All right, and so
we can see we've got a couple of different ones.
We got nginx-intel, nginx-ingress-controller,
and then kk-mock1/nginx.
That's probably the one we want.
If you wanna do a --versions.
And this should be versions with an "s"
We can do that and we'll let that run.
It's gonna show us all of the different versions
for each of the charts.
And we wanna look for just the nginx.
And so you can see all of the different versions.
So it goes all the way from 12.0.1
all the way to 19.1.1.
Let's see if there's an 18.1.5,
and I'm just gonna grep for that.
So I'll do 18.1.5,
and we have that so we can do an upgrade now
so we know which chart,
we know which version we want.
And so we'll do a helm upgrade.
And actually I'm gonna do a,
because I've lost the information,
it's all the way back up and I don't feel like scrolling.
I'm just gonna do a helm list -n kk -ns real quick. Okay?
So I'm gonna do helm upgrade.
We're gonna upgrade the release called kk-mock1
and then the chart that we're gonna use is gonna be,
and we have the chart name here,
which is kk-mock1/nginx.
So that's the name of the chart.
And then we could specify a version that we wanna use,
which is 18.1.5.
And then remember it's gonna be in the namespace kk-ns.
All right?
And we can see that it went ahead and did that.
And now if I do a helm list,
right, we are using 18.1.5.
All right, and that's all we need to do for this question
and that's going to wrap up this mock exam.

--- Mock Exam - 2 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Mock Exam - 2 - Solution : (Optional) ---

Okay.
So what we're going to do is we're going to go over the solutions for the questions in Mock Exam two.
Now in question one, it says that we need to solve this question on cluster one control plane.
And it says that we have to create a storage class named local SC with the following specifications
and set it as the default storage class.
So first let's SSH to that cluster one.
And let's go ahead and create a storage class.
And what I'm going to do is refer to the documentation.
And I'm going to search for the storage class.
So we can grab an example configuration.
And in the file here I'm just going to copy this example.
And I'm going to paste that here.
And so what we need to do is we have to change a few things.
First of all the name has to be local SC.
It says that this should be set as the default storage class.
So to do that, we have to set this annotation with the default class, and we just have to set it to
be true.
Okay.
So we've got all of that done.
The next thing that we do is we have to set the provisioner to be this following provisioner here.
So I'll just copy this.
And then we'll go to the provisioner down here and just paste that.
All right.
And then the next two things that we need is a volume binding mode and the volume expansion mode.
So it says nothing about a reclaim policy.
So we can go ahead and delete this line.
Volume expansion should be enabled.
And we can see that it's set to true.
So that's enabled.
We can remove the mount options.
Volume binding mode should be wait for first consumer.
And we can see it's set for wait for first consumer.
And then we can just remove those other two lines.
We don't need that.
And that's all we need for the following configuration.
We can then go ahead and apply it.
And that's going to go ahead and complete question one.
Let's now move on to question two.
Now for question two.
It's once again going to be on the cluster one control plane which we're already at.
And what we need to do is we have to create a deployment named logging deployment in the namespace logging
dash ns with the replica of one.
And it's got the following specifications.
So the main container should be named app Dash container.
And it should use the following image.
And it should run the following command to simulate writing logs.
And then we have to add a sidecar container name log agent that also uses the BusyBox image and runs
the command that's listed here.
The log agent should display the entries logged by the app container.
So the app container is going to write logs to a file.
Then the log agent will grab the logs from that file and then just print them out.
So that's all it should be doing.
Or actually all it should do is sorry, not print it out, but it should just tail that log file.
So that's all it's going to be doing.
So let's go ahead and create a deployment I'm going to get a example configuration of deployment from
the docs.
I'll just grab this here.
And I'll just say question two dot YAML.
And we can just paste that.
Let's go ahead and update all the fields.
So the first thing we have to do is change the name.
So this should be logging dash deployment.
It should be in the logging ns namespace.
Doesn't really say anything about this label.
So we can go ahead and remove that.
It says that we want replicas of one.
And then the labels for the pods.
It doesn't say it has to be anything specifically.
So I'm just going to set this to be app logger, just so that it's a little bit more realistic.
And then the first container should be named app Dash container.
So we're going to change this to be app Dash container.
And the image should be BusyBox.
We can remove the ports.
And then what this should do is basically run this command.
So we have to change the command of the container.
This is going to take a list.
So we'll do sh c and then.
And let me just copy the whole thing and just delete what I don't need.
And this should be dash C.
And then we can just remove that.
Okay.
So that will overwrite the default command of the BusyBox container or the image.
And then it's going to run this command.
So this will write if you see it's going to write some log entry into a file called app dot log.
So it's just going to write that text over and over to that file.
That's good.
Then we have to add a sidecar container.
The name should be log dash agent image should be a BusyBox.
And then the command that should run.
Is the one provided there which is tail dash f.
Slash var log app dot log.
Now as I said things are going to get a little tricky here because this container is going to be writing
log files to var log.
App.
Log.
Inside its container.
So this container does not have access to that file.
Because this is var log app.
Inside the app container var log app.
App log in.
The log container is completely separate.
So we need a way to sync those together.
And the way to do that is anytime you want to share data or share a file between two containers in a
pod is to use a volume.
So we have to create a volume.
So let's go under spec and let's create a volume.
We're going to call this log volume.
And the type is we could use whatever type we want.
But since this is a scratch data and we don't actually need the data to persist, we just need it to
be available during the lifetime of the pod.
We can use the empty volume type, and this will allow us to essentially treat the var log app log and
share it between the container.
So we have the volume, and then we have to mount it in the same exact location which is var log app
inside both of the containers.
So here I'll go down and I will do volume mounts.
And I'll say name log volume which is referencing this volume.
And we have to say where we want to mount it.
Which is going to be slash var slash log slash app.
And then we can just copy this.
And do the same thing here for the second container.
So we're taking this volume and we're mounting it in var log app inside the first container.
And then var log app inside the second container.
So var log app is going to be basically the same folder in both containers.
So now they all have access to the same file.
And at that point, I think that's all we need.
So let's save this.
Let's apply this and hope there's no errors.
But I assume there's probably okay no typos.
That's good.
And I'm going to check the pod.
And now what we want to do is let's do let's take a look at the logs.
For this pod.
And we specifically want the log agent container.
So I'll do dash c dash log agent.
So this is going to be the logs for that specific container.
And we want to see if it's spitting things out.
So we can see we're seeing entries being spit out by the container.
And I could do a dash f here as well.
I'm just going to follow.
And we can see that it's able to read the log file that the first container is writing to and spit it
out in its standard output.
So that confirms that they both have access to the same data using the volume and the volume mounts.
So that's going to wrap up.
Question two.
We can now move on to question three.
All right.
So for this question that says a deployment named web app that is running in the ingress NS namespace
and exposed via service name webapp SVC, create an ingress resource called web App Ingress in the same
namespace.
Traffic to that service.
And we can see all of the requirements here.
So let's go ahead and just verify the deployment.
I always like to take a look and see that it's actually running.
So I'll do a kubectl get deploy dash n ingress dash s.
We can see it's running.
And let's take a look at the service.
And we can see the web app SRV.
So we're going to now create an ingress.
We're going to create an ingress.
So I'm going to create a new file.
And I'm going to take a look at the documentation.
And we're going to see an example configuration for ingress.
So I'm just going to search for ingress.
It's usually the first result.
And we can see we have an example here.
And so I'm just going to paste this.
So we're going to have to rename the name of ingress.
It says it's going to be called WebEx dash ingress the namespace.
So this is going to be the same namespace as the deployment and the service.
So this has to be ingress dash ns.
Okay.
So what do we put for the ingress class name.
I'm going to actually save this for a second.
And we'll do a kubectl get ingress class.
And we can see that it's called nginx.
So I'm going to change this to be not nginx example.
Pole but actually nginx.
Okay.
And so we've got the base configuration for the ingress.
The next thing you have to do to take a look at the parameters we can see here.
It's got to be configured for the Host Cloud Ingress app.
You got to use a path type prefix route request center path slash.
So the root path to the backend service forward traffic to port 80 of the service okay.
So that's pretty straightforward.
So we've got a rule here but it's not for a specific host.
So I'm going to add that here.
So I'll just hit enter.
And then here we just put in the word host.
And I don't know why it always moves over I don't want it to do that.
So host code cloud dash ingress dot app.
You can see it's going to use path type prefix.
We got to change the path.
So the path has to be just the root path.
So that's this line right here.
So we've now knocked out this line and this line, and we have to forward traffic to port 80 of the
service.
So what's the service name.
It's going to be webapp Dash SVC.
And it's got a forward traffic on port 80.
So that's all we need to do.
I'll save this.
And we can go ahead and test this out.
By sending a curl request.
And we can see we're able to access the default nginx document page which confirms that our ingress
configuration was correct.
So now move on to the next question.
So for question four it says create a new deployment called nginx.
Deploy with the following image n1 replica.
So we've created the deployment.
And then we have to upgrade the deployment to version 1.17 using a rolling update.
So to do that what I'm going to do is I'm going to do kubectl create deployment.
We'll give it the name the question which is nginx deploy.
Specify the first image which is going to be nginx one dot 16.
And I'm going to just spit this out to a file by doing dash dash dry run equals client dash o YAML.
And I'll set this to be question four YAML.
So I'll open this.
So we get the base deployment file so we can go ahead and apply this.
Keep in mind it says that we need to use rolling updates when it comes to the strategy type of deployment
on how you actually upgrade to newer versions.
There's multiple strategy types, right.
You could say the strategy field here.
And if you want a rolling update, you have to set type to be rolling update.
Now we don't need to do this because this is the default one.
So this is the default one.
We can actually go ahead and remove this.
It's going to perform a rolling update for us.
So I'll save this.
We can do a kubectl apply f.
Now if I do a kubectl get deployment we can see our deployment.
If I do a kubectl rollout history deployment.
We can see all of the versions.
There's only one at the moment.
And if you want to see information about that we could say dash revision.
Equals one.
And we can see that it's running 1.16.
So now let's go ahead and change it to version 1.17.
So we'll do kubectl set image deployment nginx deploy.
And we want to set the container called nginx.
X set the image of that to be nginx 1.17 now.
And so now if I do roll out history, we can see there's two versions and the latest version.
Should be version 1.17.
There you go.
So we're now done with question four.
Let's now move on to question five.
So for questions five it says create a new user called John.
Grant him access to the cluster using a CSR named John Developer.
Create a role developer which should grant John the permissions to create, list, get, update and
delete pods in the developer namespace.
His private key exists in this location and there's already a certificate signing request at root John
Slash CSR.
So let's take a look at that.
I'm just going to cat those two files.
So we've got root CA John Key.
So that's his private key.
And if you want to see the certificate signing request that they already created, this is the certificate
request.
Okay.
So now what we have to do to give him access to Kubernetes is we have to create a certificate signing
request Kubernetes object.
So this is the certificate request itself.
But we have to create a Kubernetes object.
And then that will eventually give him the final certificate that will allow him to access the Kubernetes
cluster.
So how do we do that?
I'm going to go to the documentation and search for certificate signing request.
And we're just going to scroll down.
Let me see if I can find an example.
All right.
So it's going to start off looking like that.
Let me see if there's a full example.
I don't think there's going to be a full example.
It doesn't look like there is a full example.
There might be managed TLS certificates in a cluster.
No, it doesn't look like there's a good, clear example of this.
Just some.
Maybe here.
I thought there was.
Oh, so this is probably the one we want.
So it gives us the imperative commands to create the certificate signing request.
Oh here we go.
So this is what it looks like.
All right.
So remember this.
It's going to be under TLS issue a certificate.
So this is what it's going to look like.
You're going to have kind certificate signing request.
You have the request property which is actually the CSR itself.
It's going to be base64 encoded.
You've got the signer name.
Usually leave it to that default value.
You could provide an expiration and then it's specific usages.
So let's create that I'm going to do VI.
Question Five dot YAML.
So this is going to be the API version and kind I'll just paste that in.
So it's going to be of type certificate signing request metadata.
The name should be John Developer.
And then the spec here we have to provide the signer name.
And we can even see that as of Kubernetes version 1.19 the certificate signing request object expects
to sign a name.
This is going to be that value that we just see here.
So we can just copy this.
And then we have to provide the request which is the certificate signing request.
So that without closing this I'm just going to go terminal two.
We could just cat slash route CA A slash.
That's the certificate signing request.
But the problem is, we can't just copy this and paste it into here because this property expects it
to be base64 encoded.
So to encode to base64 encoded we could say cat slash root CA.
Transfer.
And then to base64 encoded we do pipe base64.
And then we want it to spit out in one line.
So we say the following command here.
So that's going to base64 encoded.
And you can see it's all going to spit out in one line.
Then we can take this and then we can paste it here.
And then the last property that we need to have is going to be the usages.
And we're going to use the following which is digital signature.
Key Encipherment.
And then client auth.
Okay.
So we have the CSR object.
We'll do a kubectl apply f question five dot YAML.
And now if I do a kubectl get csr we can see we've got the John developer certificate signing request.
That's pending approval.
So to approve or reject it we do kubectl certificate approve.
And then it would be John Dash developer.
So we're approving this certificate signing request.
So now if I take a look at this again we can see it's approved.
And more importantly if I do a describe actually instead of describe I do to get CSR John developer
and then we'll just do dash o YAML.
Right.
You have the original request here.
But if you go down under status it's going to spit out the certificate.
So this is the certificate that a user will use to be able to authenticate and talk to your Kubernetes
cluster.
And this is base64 encoded.
So you're going to have to base64 decode it.
And then at that point he can use that certificate to authenticate with the Kubernetes cluster so that
your user has everything.
But at this point we can now authenticate the user.
But we also have to now make sure that he can have the proper permissions to perform various operations
on our cluster.
This is the authorization aspect of Kubernetes.
And so this is what we're going to do.
We're going to create a role called developer which will grant John the permission to perform all of
the following things.
So let's go ahead and set that up.
I'm going to create a new file.
I'll just call this question five.
How about dash Rbac.
So this is going to contain all the Rbac configuration.
So we want to create a role named developer.
So we'll start off here.
We're going to set the kind to be role.
The name is going to be.
Developer.
And create a role developer which grants permission to perform these operations in the developer namespace.
We have to make sure we set the namespace to be development and then rules.
So this is going to be what can you do.
So we'll say API groups.
Now the API group is going to be set to be empty.
And that's because we're giving them permissions for pods which are part of the core group.
So whenever you use the core group you just leave that empty.
You say resources.
What resources are we working on?
It's going to be pods.
And then what can he do?
Let's list it out right here.
So I'm just going to copy this.
And we also have to make sure that we remove that.
And then we need everything in quotations.
All right.
And we can go ahead.
And pretty much that's going to be everything we need for the role.
But then we also have to set up a role binding to assign this role to John.
So I can create another file.
But I'm just going to actually just do everything in the same file.
So I'm going to create another Kubernetes object.
And you can create multiple objects in one file by separating them with three dashes.
We're going to create a role binding.
And we'll say.
The name.
And I'll just call this John developer role binding.
And the namespace should be development.
So what user are we assigning to a role.
It's going to be the John user.
So I'll say kind.
It's going to be user name John.
And then the API group.
Is rbac.authorization.k.io.
And we have to assign them to a role.
So we'll say roll ref kind is going to be role.
Name.
What's the name of the role that's called developer.
And an API group.
And we can just copy this.
And then we can go ahead and apply this.
And it looks like there's an error.
So it says unknown field subject.
And I already know what the problem is.
This should not be subject.
This should be subjects with an S.
So let's try to apply that.
So we've got the role the role binding.
Let's go ahead and test it out to see if John has the proper access for everything he needs and the
way that you could test out access for a user, you could do kubectl auth can I and you can test what
you have access to.
So if I do auth can I and he can create list get update pods.
We'll say create pods.
But right now this is going to test if I the current user can do it.
But we don't want to test.
If I could do it I already know I can do it.
We want to test it as a user John.
So we do dash dash as equals.
John.
And then obviously in the namespace development.
So John can create pods in the development namespace.
But then if I try to use one of the other namespaces that he doesn't have permission for, like the
default namespace, you could see he doesn't have permissions.
So we've now successfully given John access to the Kubernetes cluster with the proper permissions.
All right.
So let's go to the next question now.
All right.
So for question six it says create an nginx pod called nginx resolver using the image nginx and expose
it internally with the service called nginx resolver service.
And then test.
You're able to look up the service and pod name from within the cluster.
And so use the image BusyBox 128 for the DNS lookup, record the results in nginx and nginx.
Okay, so the first thing that we'll do is we're going to create this nginx pod.
So I'll just use the cube CTL run command to do this quickly.
So we'll do nginx dash resolver.
And the image is going to be nginx.
Now we have to create a service for it so that we can access it.
And you have to look at the words pretty carefully.
But it says expose and expose it internally with the service called nginx resolver service.
So this should only be accessible internally from within the cluster.
That's a that's basically a code word for saying cluster IP.
Because the cluster IP is only accessible from within the cluster, we can't access it from outside
the cluster.
If you want access outside the cluster, you can use Nodeport or load balancer.
But internally we're going to use cluster IP.
So I'll say kubectl expose pod nginx resolver.
We'll give the name of the service which is nginx dash resolver dash service dash port equals 80.
And the target port.
Equals 80.
And then the type of service is going to be cluster IP.
Now let's verify this.
So if I do kubectl get service kubectl describe service.
Let's see if it's working.
And you can see we've got one endpoint which is going to be the one pod that we created.
And you can verify that by doing kubectl get pod o wide and you can see if the nginx resolver has an
IP address of 1727.1. 18.
So we can see that the service is working as it should.
So then it says test that you're able to look up the service and pod names from within the cluster.
Use the BusyBox 128 for DNS lookup.
So we basically have to create an ephemeral container that will allow us to run one command.
And then we can just delete it afterwards.
So we'll do kubectl run test dash nslookup dash dash image equals BusyBox 128.
We'll do rm which means once we detach from it, the pod will get destroyed.
Dash dash restart equals never.
And then we'll run the command that we want.
So if we do nslookup.
And then the name of the service which is nginx dash resolver dash service.
Let's see what it says.
All right.
And we can see that it resolved to the IP address of the service.
And if I go here we can see the service is one 7220 .175.22.
So that did successfully work.
And it says to store it in this file here.
So we're going to run the same command but output it to a file in slash route slash slash engine x dot
SVC.
All right.
And then now we also get a DNS entry for the pod IP itself.
So if you wanted to you could also grab the IP address of the pod which is here.
And you do 172.
And instead of the dot 17 you replace the dot with the dash 17.
So and then dash one dash 18 dot default dot pod.
And I'm just going to show you what the output looks like.
So the Kubernetes will actually create a DNS entry for the pod IP which looks like this.
And we're going to save this to a file which is slash route slash slash nginx dot pod.
And that'll wrap up question six.
Let's now move on to question seven.
So for question seven it says that you need to create a static pad on cluster one node one called nginx
dash critical with the image nginx.
Make sure that it's recreated restarted automatically in case of failures.
And it says use an example path of slash Kubernetes manifest as the static pod.
So to create a static pod on node one we have to.
If I do kubectl get node we have to create a file that basically the manifest on node one so that it
can create the static pod.
So first of all I'm going to do kubectl run and it says it should be called nginx critical.
So I just want to get the the YAML file for creating a pod real quick.
And I'll just do this here.
Critical engine x dash critical.
That's what I correct.
Let me just copy this.
Dash dash image equals nginx.
And we're going to do dash dash dash run equals client dash o YAML.
And we're going to put it out to a file called static YAML.
And if I just cat that we have this.
So now that we have this I'm going to ssh to node one.
Okay.
So we're on node one.
And I'm going to go to this slash Etsy Kubernetes manifest.
This is where we're going to put all of the manifest files for all the static pods.
I'm going to create a.
I'll just call it static dot YAML.
It doesn't really matter what it's called.
And before I do that, let me just copy this because we have this.
So I'll paste this in here.
So we've got the manifest.
Oh oh looks like I got disconnected.
So let me ssh back.
And then gives you target mode.
All right.
So I've got the file here I'm just going to go ahead and save this.
So inside that node because remember we need a static pod in node one.
We just have to go to slash Etsy slash Kubernetes manifest.
And then we can just create the manifest file for a pod that we want created statically.
Aesthetically if we take a look, that's what I have.
So now if I exit out of here and go back to my control plane node, I'll do a kubectl get pod.
I'm going to do a dash o wide.
And you can see nginx critical.
And you'll see that when it names a static pod it's going to assign it to the node name.
So it does dash node name.
And we can see it's on node one.
So that is a static pod.
And that is how you create a static pod within Kubernetes.
So let's now go to question eight.
So for question eight it says create a horizontal pod autoscaler with the main back end HPA for the
deployment named backend dash deployment in the backend namespace with the webapp dash HPA YAML file
located on the root folder.
So they've given us a file that has some base configurations.
We can just modify that and show that the HPA scales the deployment based on memory utilization, averaging
on average between maintaining an average memory usage of 65% across all parts.
Configure the HPA with the minimum of three replicas and a maximum of 15.
So let's open up that file and it's going to be under the root folder.
So it should be here.
And so it's called web app dash HPA YAML.
Okay.
So what we need to do is first name the horizontal pod autoscaler which we have a configuration for
as back end HPA.
So we're going to change this here.
And this is going to be in the backend namespace.
So that's good.
It's going to target a deployment called backend deployment.
So this has to be updated as well.
The deployment should be called backend deployment.
The minimum replicas should be three.
Maximum should be 15 which we have here.
So that's good.
And then now let's go ahead and set up the metrics.
So we need to maintain an average memory usage of 65% across all pods.
So we'll say metrics dash type resource.
And we'll say resource name is memory.
Target.
We're going to set that to be utilization.
And then average utilization is going to be 65.
And that's because of this right here.
So then we can go ahead and save this.
And then we'll apply.
And let's just do a describe just to see what it shows.
And we could see we've got minimum replicas, three max 15 metrics resource memory and pods 65%.
Perfect.
So that wraps up question eight.
We can now move on to question nine.
All right.
So for question ten it says SSH to cluster one.
So let's do that before we proceed any further.
And it says modify the existing web gateway on A5673 namespace to handle Https traffic on port 443 for
Cockeyed.com using TLS certificate stored in a secret named code cloud TLS.
Okay, so we have an existing gateway.
So let's take a look and say cube CTL get gateway dash NA5673.
three.
We can see we've got this.
I'm going to output this to a YAML file.
So that we can make changes to it.
And also it says that we have to use the TLS certificate stored in a secret name code called TLS.
Let's take a look and make sure that we have that.
So I'll do get secret dash and CA 5673.
And you can see we've got the TLS.
So everything's looking good.
Let's open up that file now.
Okay.
So it says modify the existing gateway to handle Https traffic on port 443 for code Cloud.com.
Okay so we got the spec.
We can see that it's listening on port 80 and the protocol is HTTP.
We needed port 443 and it needs to be Https.
So let's change that.
And that's going to be https.
The hostname.
Should be code cloud.com.
As per that.
And then we need to set up the TLS.
So we'll say certificate.
Hrefs.
Dash name.
And then we'll do code cloud dash TLS.
So it's going to point to that secret that we saw earlier.
And that's all we need to do for this specific configuration.
I'll just go ahead and apply that.
And that should be everything that we need for question ten.
Let's now move on to question 11.
So for question 11 it says on the cluster.
The team has installed multiple helm charts on different namespace by mistake.
Those deployed resources include one of the vulnerable images called code Cloud Slash webapp v1.
Find out that release name and uninstall it.
Okay, so what we're doing is first of all, we want to list out all of the releases installed.
So we'll do Helm list and then we'll do Dash A for all namespaces.
And we can see that there's several different ones.
There's four of them.
And we have to find the release that has an image that matches this name because this is a vulnerable
image.
So we need to figure out which one it is.
So what we could do is we can go one by one and I'll say helm and there's this command helm get manifest.
So this will show the final manifest generated by one of these releases.
We'll start off with the first one.
Passion.
And if I print this out, you can see it shows us all the final manifests.
And what we're going to do is we're just going to grep for web app color v1.
And you can see that the first one we got lucky.
And that is the one that has that image.
You can go and check each one manually, but this is the only one that has that.
So we know that this is the one that we want to uninstall.
So we can just run the command helm.
And let me actually get the name of that release I'll do helm uninstall the release name.
And then the namespace.
And so now you've removed that vulnerable image from your Kubernetes cluster.
Okay.
So let's now move on to question 12.
All right.
So for this question, it says you are requested to create a network policy to allow traffic from front
end apps located in the front end namespace, to back end apps located in the backend namespace, but
not from the databases in the database namespace.
There are three policies available in the root folder.
Apply the most restrictive policy from the provided YAML files to achieve the desired result.
Do not delete any existing policies, so we want to find one of the policies.
There's three of them that does everything that's being asked of it right here.
And it's as restrictive as possible.
So I will go to and let's see I'm just going to cat all of these.
There's one that's two.
That's three.
So let's start off with one.
And let's take a look and see if it meets the requirements.
So remember we want the front end apps in the front end interface to be able to talk to the backend
apps Up, but not from the databases in the database namespace.
So in this case we can see it's applied to the backend namespace.
If we do select all pods in the backend namespace, and we could see that it's going to select a namespace.
In this case it's got a namespace selector.
So any namespace with access allowed is going to allow them any of the pods in there to talk to the
backend pod.
And more importantly if I do a kubectl get namespace dash dash show dash labels.
Now you can see there's just one label.
Really in this case is backend.
If we take a look at the front end it's got name front end.
And then if we got where's the database.
There's no database namespace in this case.
Okay.
So this isn't really going to match anything in this case.
So I don't think this is the one that we want.
Now if we go to the next one once again, namespace backend is going to select all pods in that namespace
to the backend namespace, and it's going to allow traffic from the front end namespace.
And it's going to allow traffic from the database namespace, which is not what we want, because we
do not want traffic coming from the databases in the database namespace.
So let's go to the third one.
We can see this is applied to the backend namespace pod selector.
Selecting all pods in the backend namespace ingress coming from name frontend.
So this is going to allow traffic coming in from the front end namespace and nobody else.
If the database namespace, nothing from that namespace can talk to the backend namespace, because
when it comes to an ingress policy, it's just going to allow what we have here.
So this is the one that we want.
We can go ahead and apply this.
So I'll just do a cube CTL.
Apply dash f.
And that's all we needed to do.

--- Mock Exam - 3 ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Mock Exam - 3 - Solution : (Optional) ---

Instructor: In this video we're gonna walk through
these solutions for all of the questions in mock exam three.
Now for question one, you can see that it says
that you are an administrator preparing your environment
to deploy a Kubernetes cluster using kubeadm.
Adjust the following network parameters on the system
to the following values and make sure
your changes persist reboots.
So these are the two changes that we need to make
so that we can actually run Kubernetes.
And so you'll, anytime you are deploying
or essentially provisioning a new cluster,
you're gonna have to enable these two functionalities
on all of your servers.
To do this, what I always recommend is remembering
that since we are in the process of creating a new cluster,
using kubeadm, most likely to figure out
where we would get the information to do this
inside the documentation, which remember,
you have the documentation available
for you during the exam.
So I definitely recommend you get familiar with it
because you are going to need to reference it
pretty routinely.
Let's go ahead and search kubeadm,
and there's going to be a guide on how
to create a cluster with kubeadm.
And so this is gonna be this guy right here.
So to get there you go, under Production environment,
installing Kubernetes deployment tools,
boots driving a cluster, and then creating
a cluster with kubeadm.
And then what you want to do is the first step
that you always have to do is set up a container runtime.
So I'm gonna open this in a new tab
and here you're gonna see that it's going
to give you directions on how to do that.
So in this section it's showing you how
to enable IPv4 packet forwarding,
which if we go back here, that's going to be the first one.
So I'm gonna do copy this command, which is,
this is going to enable it by modifying this k8s.com file
and essentially enabling it in the file
and then applying the CCTL params without reboot,
which is by running this command.
So I'm going to copy this and I'm going to just save this
in my notepad.
So we have the command for enabling IP forwarding.
And then the last thing that we have to do is just copy
this second line right here and also paste that
right underneath.
So that should be everything that we need to do.
So we can then copy these commands
and then we can just paste it into our terminal
and that's going to enable those two features
or functionalities on our server.
And that's all we need to do for the question one.
And once again, I definitely recommend you guys get familiar
with where to find things in the documentation.
In this case, how to enable IPv4 packet forwarding.
That's going to be under the documentation
for how to set up a container runtime
because the container runtime needs these things
enabled before they can work.
So this is the first step that you need to perform
when you are creating a Kubernetes cluster
before you do anything else.
Let's now go to question two.
Now for question two, we have to create
a new service account with the name pvviewer.
And we need to grant this service account access
to all persistent volumes in the cluster
by creating an appropriate cluster role called pvviewer-role
and a ClusterroleBinding called pvviewer-role-binding.
And then we have to create a pod called pvviewer
with the image redis and service account set
to pvviewer in the default namespace.
So really we have to do three things.
We have to create a service account.
We then have to set up a role
and a role binding so that we can give
that service account certain permissions,
which in this case is to list all persistent volumes.
And then we have to assign that service account to a pod.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So to create a service account, it's a very simple command.
We just do cubctl create serviceaccount.
And one little tip, I always recommend that you guys copy
anytime it gives you a name, whether it's a name
for a pod or a deployment, always copy it
from the instructions because when you go to take the exam
and it performs validation, it's going to look
for the exact name.
So if you make a typo, you're gonna lose points on that.
So here, I'm gonna just paste that in
and that's going to create our service account.
If I do kubectl get surface account,
we should see the pvviewer.
And then the next thing that we have to do is we have
to create a cluster role called pvviewer-role.
That should be able to list all persistent volumes.
So we could do this either using the imperative command
like kubectl create, or we can create a YAML file.
I'm just gonna use the kubectl command.
So I'll say kubectl create.
And then we're gonna create a cluster role.
The name of the cluster role is going to be
the one provided right here.
And then we have to give it permissions.
So it should be able to list all persistent volumes.
So we'll say resource=persistentvolumes.
And then we have to say what actions it can perform
on that by doing-- verb.
And that's going to be just list.
So this will basically create a cluster role
and it'll allow us to list persistent volumes.
So we've created that.
I'll do kubectl, describe clusterrole pvviewer-role.
And we can see that for persistent volumes,
he's able to list them.
Or anybody that has this role assigned to them,
they'll be able to list them.
And then after that we have to create a role binding
so that we can bind the service account to that role
and give him this following permissions.
And so to do that, we'll do kubectl create
clusterrolebinding, and it gives us the name
that it wants us to use.
So I'll just copy that.
And then we say the clusterrole,
is going to be the role that we just created,
which is the pvviewer-role.
And then we wanna assign a service account to that role.
And that service account is in the default namespace.
So I'll say default:pvviewer.
Okay. And so now if I do kubectl,
describe clusterrolebinding,
we should see that it's gonna bind
the pvviewer service account to the role called
pvviewer-role.
All right, and then the final thing I should do is create
a pod called pvviewer with the following image.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm gonna just create a file and I'll just call this one
question2.yaml and let's create the spec for a pod.
So here we get the API version set to V1,
the kind set to pod metadata.
This is gonna be name, and that name is going to be
pvviewer.
And then for the spec, we'll do containers
and we will have a...
It doesn't give us a name that we have to give it,
so you could just call it whatever you want.
I'll just call it pvviewer.
And then the image has to be redis.
And the final thing that we have to do is we have
to assign it the service account to pvviewer.
So I'm just gonna go up here and we'll say
serviceAccountName is going to be pvviewer.
Okay, and so that's how you assign
a specific service account to a pod.
We'll save this file and then we can just apply this.
And then if I do get pod, we'll wait for that
to come online.
There it is.
And we'll do a describe.
And let's just make sure that the service account
is now set to pvviewer and it is.
And that's all that we need to do for question number two.
All right, now let's go on to question number three.
So for question number three, we have to create
a StorageClass called rancher-sc,
and it's gotta have the following configurations.
So for this, if you don't remember how
to create a storageclass off the top of your head,
we can always just go to the documentation
and just search for storageclass.
And we'll take a look at the documentation
for Storage Classes.
It's going to give us an example configuration.
So just copy this and I'm going to create a file
and I'm going to paste it in there
and then we'll just update the properties accordingly.
So first of all, we have to change the name.
It's going to be rancher-sc.
Okay, and then let's take a look at the configs.
So does it expect us to set this
to be the default storageclass?
Let's see, provisioners should be this
volume binding, volume expansion.
Nope. So we can remove this.
I mean it's set to false so it doesn't matter,
but we don't really need this configuration.
But it's the same if you left it
because we want it to be false.
And that's the default anyways.
So we removed that the provisioner should be at
rancher.io/localpath.
So let's update the provisioner.
Okay, does it say anything about a reclaim policy?
It doesn't. So we will remove that line.
Volume expansion should be enabled.
So allow volume expansion should set to be true.
So that's good.
It doesn't say anything about amount option,
so I'm going to just remove that.
Volume binding mode should be WaitForFirstConsumer.
We could see this is already set for
WaitForFirstConsumer.
And so we've now met those three criteria.
We can just remove the parameter down here.
We don't need that.
So that's all we need to do for this file.
We can go ahead and save this and then apply this.
All right, and that's going to wrap up question three.
Let's now go to question four.
So for question four, it says that we need to create
a ConfigMap named app-config in the namespace cm-namespace
with the following key value pairs.
So we're creating a ConfigMap
with those two key value pairs.
Let's go ahead and do that now.
So I'll say kubecto create configmap.
It should be called app-config
and it should be in the namespace cm-namespace
and it's gonna have two key value pairs.
So to pass in key value pairs,
we do --from-literal= and then the key value pair.
So ENV=production.
And then we could just do it again for the next one.
So, -- from-literal=log_level=info.
All right, nd now if I do kubectl get cm-n cm-namespace.
And we'll do a describe.
Gotta move the config map word here
and we can see it's got the two key value ENV production
and LOG_LEVEL info.
Then the next thing it says, modify the existing deployment
named cm-web pp in the same name space
to use the app-config ConfigMap
by setting the environment variables for ENV
and Log_Level in the container from the ConfigMap.
So basically we have to set these two values
as environment variables inside our pre-existing deployment
named cm-webapp.
So let's take a look.
We'll do kubectl get deployment,
and this will be in the cm-namespace.
We can see we've got this.
Now to make changes to this deployment,
I'm just gonna do the kubectl edit command.
But you could, for these mock exams
or for the actual exam, you can always just do kubectl,
get deployment -o yaml, print it out
and make whatever changes and then apply that.
But I'm just gonna do a kubectl edit deployment
and then this is called cm-webapp,
cm-namespace.
Okay, and what we're gonna do is we're gonna find
the container, the container is right here
and we're gonna pass in the ConfigMap
as environment variables.
So we need to pass in both of them.
And so what we can do is we can just say env from
and we'll say - configMapRef, and then we specify the name
of the ConfigMap, which is app-config.
So once we do that, it should update that
and if we do kubectl get pod -n
and then go to that namespace, we could see that
it's been running for 10 seconds
after we made the changes, it updated it.
And that should be all that we need to do
for step or for question four.
So now let's go to question five.
And it says create a PriorityClass named low-priority
with the value of 50,000.
A pod named lp-pod exists in the name place low-priority.
Modify the pod to use the priority class you created
and then recreate the pod if necessary.
So the first thing that we have to do is we have
to create a PriorityClass.
Now I don't know how to do that off the top of my head,
so it's always best to just consult the documentation.
So we'll search for priorityclass
and let's select this Pod Priority and Preemption
and let's just search for PriorityClass.
And it should have an example for us.
And we've got one right here.
So I'm just gonna copy this.
And I'm gonna go back here, I'm gonna create a file,
just name it question5.yaml.
I will paste that here and let's update the values.
So first of all, we have to change the name of the class
to be low-priority, as per the instructions here,
we have to set the value to be 50,000.
And then we can just leave everything else default.
If we wanna update the the description, we can do that.
It's not gonna really make a difference
'cause the instructions don't say anything specifically
about that, but we'll just say, "This is
a lower priority class."
So we can then save that.
We'll do an apply.
So we've applied that.
Then the next thing it says that there's a pod
named lp-pod, which exists in the low priority namespace.
Let's take a look at that.
So do kubectl get pod -n low-priority.
We can see it's running.
We need to modify to use the priority class you created.
So I'll say kubectl get pod.
So we need to get the current configuration of the pod.
So I'll just say get pod lp-pod
inside the low-priority namespace
and I'm going to output that to yaml
and save it as question5-pod.yaml.
Okay, so I'll say vi question5- pod.yaml.
Okay, and what we need to do is now set the priority.
And so to do that we just go under spec
and we say priorityClassName and we set that
to be low-priority.
We'll save that.
And so now we have to make those changes
so we can delete the old pod and then apply the new one.
Or we could just do kubectl replace.
So if I do kubectl replace -f question5-pod.yaml
and we just do a -force.
So that's gonna delete the old one
and then apply the new one.
And you could see that it deleted the old one,
but then we got an error.
It says lp-pod is forbidden: the integer value
of priority 0 must not be provided in pod spec;
priority admission controler competed 50,000
from the given PriorityClass name.
So this error is expected and I recommend you
read this error 'cause it tells us everything
we need to know.
It says the integer value of priority is set to zero
and that's not allowed.
So it's saying that we have manually set the priority
to be zero in the pod, but this is not supported
because we've provided the PriorityClass name
and it competed the value to be 50,000.
So what is the issue?
Let's go and take a look at the file.
You can see we added this priorityClassName,
which translates to 50,000.
But you can see here that from the previous config,
priority set to zero.
So you can't have that.
So if we have to, when we set the priority class name,
we're gonna remove the priority value that's set there.
And now if we do kubectl apply question5-pod.yaml,
we can see it's created, we'll do kubectl get
pod -n low- priority and we can see it's running
with no issues.
And that's all we need to do for question five.
All right, let's now go to question six.
All right, so it says that we've deployed a new pod
called np-test-1 and a service called np-test-services,
incoming connections to the service are not working,
troubleshoot and fix it.
And it tells us basically what we need to do to fix it,
which is create a network policy by the name
of ingress-nptest that allows incoming connections
to this service over port 80.
Okay, so we have to create a network policy to perform that.
So I'm gonna go to the documentation
and search for network policy.
So we can get an example one.
And we've got this long one, we won't need to use
most of the configs, but we'll just use that.
So I will create a file called question6.yaml
and I'm gonna just paste that in there for now.
And actually what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna open up
a new tab and let's go take a look at that pod.
So it's kubectl get pod, we can see np test-1.
And then what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do
-: - show-labels so that we could see what labels
that pod has assigned to it so we could match it
in the network policy.
So we have deployed a new pod called nptest server
and a service called incoming connections to this service
or basically this pod are not working.
We need to create a network policy
that allows incoming connections to this service
or this pod essentially over port 80.
Okay, it's basically allowing any other pod
to be able to talk to it on port 80.
So we're not allowing a specific pod
or a pod with specific labels.
We're just saying anybody that wants to talk
to us on port 80 should be able to.
So let's reopen the configs and in this case
we have to think about the direction the policy is in
from the perspective of this pod,
we're allowing incoming connections on port 80.
So that's going to be an ingress rule.
So we don't need anything that's egress related.
So I'm going to delete anything that's egress related.
All right, so I've removed anything
and everything that's egress related
and in fact I'm just gonna delete everything
from here just to keep it simple.
So the first thing that we have to do is we have
to assign this policy to the np-test-1 pod
and we know what label it has,
which is run-np-test-1.
So under the pod selector we're going to set that
to be run and what is it
np-test-1.
So that's going to take this policy
and apply it to that pod.
We have a ingress rule and this ingress rule
is going to allow traffic from any pod
as long as it goes on port 80.
So to do that we just say- port- protocol: TCP port:80.
And that's all we need to do.
So we'll then apply this.
kubectl apply- f question6 and that's created the policy.
And that's going to wrap up this question.
So now let's go on to question seven.
And it says, taint the worker node,
node 1 to be unscheduled.
Once done, create a pod called dev-redis
with the following image to ensure workloads
are not scheduled to this worker node.
And then create another pod called prod-redis,
an image with this, with the toleration
to be scheduled on node1.
So basically we're gonna taint a node
and then we're gonna create one pod that's not tolerant
to that taint, which is the dev
and the one pod that is tolerant
to the taint, which is the prod one.
And we see the values that we should use for the taint.
So to taint a node and if you want,
you can always take a look in the documentation.
If you just search for taint,
it's probably gonna be the first one.
And so this is gonna have everything that you need
and I'll just walk you through that.
So if we do a kubectl get node,
remember we're gonna be doing this to node1.
So we have to taint node1.
So I'll say kubectl, taint node node1.
And then what we have to do is we have
to provide the key then the value
and then the effect which is no schedule.
So we'll say env_type = production
and then NoSchedule.
And so now if I do kubectl describe node node1
and then grep for taint, we should see that
it has taint now.
Okay, so now what we need to do is create a pod called redis
with the following image.
So I'm just gonna do this as simply as possible just
by doing the kubectl run command
and we just pass in the -- image flag
and that's gonna be set to redis:alpine.
And then the next thing that we have to do
is we to create another pod called prod-redis.
But this time it's going to have a toleration so
that it can be scheduled on node1.
So for this one I'm going
to actually just create a YAML file
'cause I don't really know how to pass those flags in
on the imperative command.
So I'll say question7.yaml.
All right, so we'll start off with the basics.
I'm gonna give it the name that the question
told me to give it, which is prod-redis.
And then the spec, this is going to be the containers.
And that's all we need for the base configuration,
but we have to add a toleration so that it
can be scheduled to node1.
And so to add a toleration, I'm just gonna go to top level
and I'll just say tolerations.
And here we're going to add a list.
So first, what is the effect of the toleration
that we're gonna tolerate?
So the effect is going to be NoSchedule.
'cause remember that's what we set it on.
The node effect is NoSchedule.
Then we you have to provide the key, which is env_type.
The operator, so the ENV type has to be exactly equal to
the value I provide here, which is going to be production.
Okay, and so that's going to allow this pod
to tolerate the taint of node1.
And I'll do kubectl apply -f question7.
And so now if I do a show, sorry, kubectl get pod
and we do -o wide to see what node they're assigned to,
we could see that dev-redis did not get assigned
to node1, it went to the control plane node
and we could see prod-redis was allowed to be scheduled
to node1 because we assigned the toleration to that pod.
All right, and so that's going to wrap up question seven,
let's now go to question eight.
Okay, so for this question it says a persistent volume claim
named app-pvc exist in the namespace stored-ns
but it's not getting bound to the available
persistent volume named app-pv.
It's telling us to inspect both the pvc and the pv
and identify why the pvc is not being bound
and to fix the issue so that the pvc successfully binds
to the pv, do not modify the pv resource.
Okay, so basically we've got a pv, we've got a pvc.
The pvc is not getting bound to the pv.
Should be pretty straightforward.
We'll do a kubectl and let's take a look at the pv first
and it's going to be get pv and I'm gonna just move this out
so it's a little bit easier to read.
Okay, so we've got a pv, we can see the capacity,
we could see the access mode, we could see
the reclaimed policy, we could see that it's available.
Okay, so everything looks good so far.
We'll then do kubectl get pvc
and then it's gonna be in the storage-ns namespace
and we could see it's in a pending state.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to do a -o yaml
just to see the full configuration.
Okay, and so what we want to essentially do is
we wanna take a look at the configs
for the pv and make sure that all of the configs match.
So we need the configs to match
or then it's not able to bind.
So we have to first make sure that the capacity
is large enough.
So the pvc is requesting one gig. That's good.
So the capacity's good.
Let's go ahead and just go through the list
and make sure that everything else is the same.
Let's take a look at the access mode.
So rewrite once is the access mode of the pv.
And if we take a look at the pvc access mode,
ReadWrite many, okay, so this is why it's not binding.
They have different access modes.
So we have to adjust the pvc to match with the pv,
which is ReadWrite once.
So let's update that. So I'm gonna do kubectl.
Actually I can just pipe this to a file,
which I'll say this is question8.yaml.
And then we will change this to be ReadWrite once,
and then I'm going to delete the pvc
and then apply the new config.
So we've applied the new one
and now if I do a kubectl get pvc,
we should see that now the app pvc is bound
and is bound to the app-pv.
So we've now successfully fixed the issue.
That wraps up question eight.
Let's now move to question nine.
Okay, so for this question it says
that there's a kubeconfig file called super.kubeconfig
in the following location and it says
there's something wrong with this con configuration,
troubleshoot and fix it.
Whenever there's a question where it says there's an issue
and we need to fix it, always verify the issue first.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do a kubectl,
I'm just gonna do a get node
and I'll just pass in that kube config file.
CKA/super.kubeconfig.
Okay, and when I run this, let's see what error it does,
unhandled error couldn't get current server API group list.
So connection refused.
So it's connecting to 192.168.9.84 at port 9999.
And it's saying connection refused.
So what exactly is going on?
Let's take a look at the file.
And so we'll go to /root
and I'm actually just gonna cat it.
Okay.
When we use the file, the current context is set
to kubernetes-admin@kubernetes.
The context that's going to be this guy right here.
So it's gonna be using the kubernetes admin.
So let's take a look at that user.
That user here, we could see its client certificate,
we could see its client key and then it's gonna use
the Kubernetes cluster, which is up here.
So this cluster called kubernetes,
we could see the certificate authority data
and we can see the server,
which is at controlplane port-9999.
Now you can see here that when we try to connect
to it on port 9999, it says connection refused.
So it's not listening.
Now usually the API component, the kube, API server,
it doesn't usually listen on port 9999.
It usually listens on port 6443,
but maybe there's like a custom configuration.
So I don't know if this is correct
or I don't know if it's wrong, but let's go and take a look
and see what port the kube API servers listening on.
And for that we can actually use the netstat command.
So I could say sudo netstat- tulnp
And what we could do is we could just greb
for kube- apiserver and we could see that
the kube- apserver is not in fact
listening on port 9999, it's listening on port 6443.
So that's probably the issue.
Let's go ahead and fix that.
So now I'm gonna run that same command
get node and we can see it now works
and that's all we need to do for question nine.
Let's now go to question 10.
All right, so for question 10 it says
that there's a new deployment called nginx-deploy.
And what we need to do is we to scale the replica count up
to three and we need to make sure that it all,
it goes up to three with no issues.
If there's any issues, we have to fix that.
So let's take a look and we'll say
kubectl get deployment nginx-deploy.
And we can see right now one of one ready,
up to date available.
So it's set to one and it's thing that we need
to scale this up to be three.
So we can just run the command kubectl,
scale the deployment enginx-deploy,
and we wanna set the replicas to be three.
So that's gonna scale it up to three.
We will give it a couple seconds,
it's gonna take some time to scale up.
Once it's scaled up, let's go ahead
and run the get deployment again.
And let's see the configuration.
So we can see right now one of three is ready.
So we still only have one available
and we do not have the three that we want.
Maybe just taking a little extra time.
So let's run this again and we could still see
that it's just one available.
So there's clearly something wrong with this.
So what I like to do is if there's an issue
with the deployment, I'm gonna start by doing
a kubectl describe deployment,
and we're gonna take a look at the deployment.
And what I like to do here is just look for any errors.
If you see anything that's like pointing to an error,
whether it's in the configs here, the conditions,
or especially the events, a lot of times the events
will tell us something.
So it says scaled up replica from 0 to 1.
So it doesn't really seem to be doing anything specific
to moving up to three.
So we could see that eight minutes ago.
So this is before we even got to the question,
we could see that the controller told the replica set
that was created by the deployment to go from zero to one,
but we never got a message from the deployment controller
to tell it to go from one to three.
Now I don't know exactly what's going on,
but that's what I would expect to see.
But let's take a look at the replica set.
So I'll do kubectl get replica set.
Now do a kubectl describe replica set.
And the replica set doesn't really tell us
anything interesting, right?
It says 10 minutes ago it created a pod,
but it didn't create the other two pods.
But that's to be expected because the deployment
never told the replica set that it needs to go to three.
So I think this is more interesting
what we see in the deployment, which is that
the deployment controllwr never did its job,
it never configured it to set the replica set up to three.
We only saw the initial configuration from zero to one,
it never went from one to three.
So maybe there's some sort of issue
with the deployment controller
and anytime you see the configurations for your deployments
and your replica sets and you've configured them correctly,
but something's not working, that's usually going to point
to something in the control flight.
Could be a deployment controller, it could be an issue
with the API server, could be a variety of different things,
but always look at the control plane
because that's usually what's limiting us
from making these changes.
So I'm gonna do a kubectl get pod,
and we're gonna look at the kube-system namespace
where all of the control plane components are.
And you know right away you'll notice something,
the kube-controller manager has an issue,
so it's not even running at the moment.
So that would explain why it's not up that deployment
because we need the respective controllers to do that.
So why is it stuck in this image pole back off?
Let's take a look.
And remember all of the control plane components,
they're going to be static pods.
So all of their configuration is going
to be in the etc/kubernetes/manifests.
And then we wanna look for the controller-manager.
Okay, so why isn't it working?
Has an image pull issue.
So there's an issue with the image.
So let's go to the image, it's pointing to registry.k8s.io
kube control, oh okay, so I think we see the mistake here.
So notice how there's a one and then an L,
obviously that's a typo, it should be two L's.
So let's fix that and then let's make sure
that there's no other typos.
And you can see that the command
that's gonna start in the container also has a typo.
It's got that 1 instead of two Ls.
So that's a typo. So we'll fix that.
And it looks like there's just typos all over the place.
It's the same typo.
So if we're gonna just change everything here
to be a controller, and I'm just gonna go one by one
and fix them and let me see if I can find
and looks like there's another one.
Okay, and I think that's it.
So let's go ahead and save that.
And after you save it, it'll automatically make those
changes and deploy the new pod
with the correct configuration.
So I'm gonna hit up a couple times,
get back to see all the pods, and now we can see
the controller manager is up and running with no issues.
And now if I do a kubectl get deploy,
we can see two are available, that's progress.
And now we can see three of three.
And if I do acubectl get pods.
We can see that we've got three nginx deployment pods.
Right, so we've now successfully fixed the issue.
Let's now move on to the next question.
Okay, so for this question it says create
a Horizontal Pod Autoscaler for the deployment
named api-deployment located in the api namespace.
The HPA should scale the deployment based on
the custom metric named request per second.
Targeting an average value of a hundred thousand requests
per second across all pods.
Set the minimum number of replicas to one
and the maximum to 20.
And then once again there's a note
deployment name is available in the api namespace,
ignore errors due to the metric not being tracked
in the metrics server.
Okay, now what I'm gonna do is I'm going
to search in the documentation
for horizontal pod auto scaling
and it should give us a example configuration hopefully.
If not, we could just make it from scratch.
Yeah, I think it's probably better if we just made it
from scratch and I'll just explain everything line by line.
So we'll do question11.yaml, but I believe the configuration
is probably...
Probably just scrolled past it.
But definitely get familiar with the documentation
because if you won't be able to remember how to do
all of these things off the top of your head.
So you wanna make sure you know
where in the documentation you can get an example
configuration so that you could just copy and paste it.
But this shows you how to set certain scaling
policies and whatnot.
So api version.
And so that's gonna be the api version in the kind,
Which is autoscaling/V2.
And then kind is gonna be horizontalPodAutoscaler.
And then we wanna set the metadata.
The name is going to be api-hpa
and the namespace should be api,
as per the question.
Then we'll go to spec the scaleTargetRef.
apiVersion is gonna be apps/v1
and the kind is going to be Deployment
and the name is going to be api-deployment.
So that's the name of the deployment that we wanna scale.
And then we want to go and specify the minimum replicas
and the max replicas, which is going to be based off
of this line right here.
So set the minimum replicas to 1 maximum to 20.
So, we'll say min replicas is 1,
max replicas is 20.
Then we'll say metrics and we'll say type.
So remember we want to set it up so
that every pod averages 1000 requests per second.
So we'll say type is going to be Pods.
And then for the pods we'll say metric.
And then the name of this metric is going to be
requests_per_second.
And we wanna set the target.
So type this is gonna be the AverageValue
and then the AverageValue is going to be 1000.
And that's because it says we want 1000 requests per second.
All right and so that's all we need.
I can go ahead and save this, could do kubectl apply.
And if we want we can do a describe hpa.
And we could see our HPA everything we configured.
And that's all we need to do for question 11.
Let's now go to question 12.
Right, so for question 12 says configure the web-route
to split traffic between web-service and web-service-v2.
And the configuration should be 80% goes to web-service,
20% is routed to web-service-v2.
Note, the web-gateway web-service and the web-service-v2
have already been created and are available on the cluster.
And we could just verify that real quick.
If I do kubectl get service.
We could see web-service, web-service two.
And then kubectl get gateway.
We could see that there's a gateway
called web-gateway.
Okay, so everything has already been configured,
we just have to create the HTTP route.
So let's go ahead and create that.
So I'll go to question12.yaml.
All right, I'm just gonna paste this here.
So we've got the api version, the kind it's gonna be
HTTP route.
And here I'll set the name to be web-route.
And the namespace, that's gonna be the default namespace
because that's where those services are.
And then spec, and then the parentRefs have to point
to the web gateway that we just saw.
And the name of that was web-gateway.
And if you wanna add the namespace,
that's gonna be default again.
So now here we're going to add in the rules.
So we'll do matches and we'll say path.
Type: PathPrefix.
Value is gonna be the root path.
And then we have to tell it the backend.
So the underlying service that we should forward traffic for
this is gonna be for the web-service.
So we could say cache name,
web-service, it's gonna be listening on port 80.
And then we wanna give it a weight.
So remember this should get 80%.
So we'll say the weight is 80,
and then we can add the second one.
And this is gonna be web-service-V2.
Port is gonna be 80.
And then the weight, so this should get 20%,
so that's gonna be 20.
All right, and that's all we need to do.
So basically the route path we're matching right here.
And then this is gonna forward 80% of the traffic to here
and then 20% of the traffic to here.
And then we can go ahead and apply that.
And we've now created our HTTP route.
Let's now move on to question 13.
Okay, so of question 13, one application
called webpage-server-01 is deployed on
the kubernetes cluster by the Helm tool.
And now the team wants to deploy a new version
of the application by replacing the existing one.
A new version of the helm chart is given
in the following location.
Directory on the terminal.
It says validate the chart before installing it
on the kubernetes cluster, use the helm command to validate
and install the chart as successfully installing
the newer version, uninstall the older version.
Okay, so the chart is located in /root/new-version.
That's where it is.
Now to validate a chart, helm has a nice command
called helm lint, and then you just provide a path
to the chart and we can see that it found one chart,
zero charts failed.
Okay, so the chart is good and we shouldn't have
any issues with that.
So we can go ahead and install it.
So we'll do helm install, and then you just provide a path
to the chart.
You could give it whatever name you want in the directions
it doesn't specify a specific name.
And if you want, we can also set up helm
to generate the name.
Okay, so we could see it generated the name,
we could see that's what it's called.
So now if I do a helm list, we could see
the new one we created.
And then now at this point, we can go ahead
and delete the older one, which is the webpage-server-01.
So we'll do helm uninstall, and then I'll paste this.
So now if I do a helm list, the old one's gone,
and that's all we need to do for question 13.
All right, so for the following question,
it says identify the pod CIDR network of the cluster.
This information is crucial for configuring the CNI plugin
during installation, I'll put the pod CIDR network
to a file at /root/pod-cidr.txt.
So to get the pod CIDR, you could do a kubectl get node,
and what we'll do is I'll just grab the control plane node
in this case and I'm just gonna do a -o yaml
and I'm just gonna pipe it to more.
And what we wanna do is we wanna look
for a section called podCIDR.
And you can see under the section here, we can see podCIDR
and we can see the following sent to here.
So this is where we get the podCIDR network.
That's gonna be this one right here.
And so what we wanna do is we just wanna grab
that programmatically and save it to this file.
So what we could do is we could do kubectl get node
-: o json path= and we could say this is gonna return
a list of all the nodes.
So I could say grab items, grab the first one,
which is gonna be the control plane node.
And then what we wanna do is we wanna go under
spec and then podCIDR.
So spec.podCIDR, and then we wanna just pipe it to that file
that tells us which is /root/ pod-cidr.xt.
And let's just cat that file just to make sure that it says
that properly and we can see it's stored it in there.
And that's all we need to do for question 14.
And that's going to wrap up this mock exam.

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Frequently Asked Questions! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- More Certification Tips! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Conclusion ---

-: And there you have it.
We have come to the end
of this incredible learning journey together.
We sincerely hope
that you've had a fantastic experience with us
and that you have gained valuable knowledge and skills
throughout this course.
As you prepare for your exams,
I wanna wish you all the best.
I have complete faith in your abilities,
and I know that you're going to excel.
And remember, hard work and dedication
are the keys to success.
I believe that you have what it takes to achieve your goals.
When you do achieve those victories,
we would be thrilled if you could share your success stories
with us on social media.
Don't forget to tag us in your posts
so we can celebrate your accomplishments with you
and the rest of our community.
If you're looking to gain more practice
before attending the CKA exam,
check out the ultimate CKA mock exam series
that we have recently released on KodeKloud.
This is a special course to gain hands-on experience
in a real exam-like environment.
This is a perfect addition to the mock exams
that you already have in this course.
This series replicates the exam environment closely
with multiple clusters and patterns of questions.
And as this requires a larger lab infrastructure to host,
this is only available on KodeKloud
and requires a KodeKloud paid subscription.
If you're planning for the CKS
Kubernetes Security Specialist certification exam,
then check out the CKS course on KodeKloud.
We cover all the topics needed
to help you clear your CKS certification exam,
and of course, along with hands-on labs and mock exams.
And we also have the KCNA,
the Kubernetes and Cloud-Native Associate
entry Level certification exam prep course.
All of these are exclusively available on KodeKloud,
so it requires a KodeKloud subscription.
But don't worry, use the coupon code UDEMY10
to get a special extra discount
where you purchase your subscription.
Apart from the courses that are available here on Udemy,
we have 40 plus other courses
that are only available on KodeKloud,
plus another 50 plus courses that are planned
for the rest of the year
on Linux, DevOps, and cloud technologies.
Our Linux learning path helps you go
from an absolute beginner to a certified expert on Linux.
You will learn Linux by doing in a completely new way
with a hands-on approach.
And our cloud learning paths help you learn
the basics of popular cloud platforms
and prepare you for certifications,
and then deep dive into each of the services
offered on the cloud platforms with a hands-on approach.
Additionally, with the KodeKloud Pro Plan,
you also gain access to the cloud playgrounds
for all three cloud platforms.
You get instant access to a cloud sandbox environment,
as well as 50 plus DevOps playgrounds.
No more worrying about forgetting to clean up
your environments and incurring cloud costs.
We will take care of all of that for you.
So once again, use that coupon code UDEMY10
to get a special extra discount
when you purchase your KodeKloud subscription.
Well, all the best for your exams.
Thank you for choosing our course,
and we hope that it has been a truly enriching experience.
Until next time, goodbye.

--- What's Next? ---

-: Hello everyone.
This is Vijin Palazhi from KodeKloud
and welcome to the ultimate CKA mock exam series.
(air whooshing)
(gentle music)
(air whooshing)
Now before we begin,
I wanted to talk to you
about some of the prerequisites to consider
before attempting this course.
Now since you're watching this video,
I'm assuming that your CKA exam is right around the corner
and that you have already completed,
the CKA preparation course
with the included mock exams and the Lightning Labs.
Now if this assumption is incorrect,
I would highly recommend
that you complete the CKA preparation course first
and then come back to this series of Labs.
Now this course consists of a series
of comprehensive and challenging mock exams intended
to give you more hands-on practice
before you attend the actual exam.
(upbeat music)
And each test is quite unique
as compared to the regular mock exams and Lightning Labs
that you'll find in the CKA course.
(air whooshing)
As you may already know,
the CKA exam tests your practical knowledge
in five key knowledge areas.
The architecture, installation
and maintenance section consists of 25% of the questions.
Now workload and scheduling is another 15%.
Service networking is 20%, storage is another 10%
and finally,
the biggest section of them all is troubleshooting,
which accounts for 30% of the questions.
Now each of the tests in this series respects the weightage
of these individual knowledge areas
to give you the experience of taking an actual exam.
(upbeat music)
And to take it up another notch,
the questions that you get for this mock exam,
including the knowledge area themselves,
are completely randomized,
which are curated from a large pool of questions
and designed by the KodeKloud experts.
(upbeat music)
Now you'll also find that just like the real exam,
our mock exam series uses multiple Kubernetes clusters.
There are four clusters in total,
some of which are dedicated to specific knowledge areas.
(upbeat music)
By default, the exam taker which is you,
will be locked into what is known as the student-node.
And from here,
you'll be able to access all the other Kubernetes clusters
and also be able to ssh your individual nodes
of these clusters.
(upbeat music)
In total, there are 20 random questions generated
for the entire Lab.
And as I mentioned earlier,
these are randomized across the knowledge areas or sections
and you'll have in total, two hours to complete this exam.
(air whooshing)
At the end of the exam,
the results will be auto-validated
and you'll be presented with a score.
(upbeat music)
All right, so that was a quick introduction
to the ultimate CKA mock exam series.
Let's now jump right in
and go over one of these tests ourselves.
(air whooshing)
All right, so let's now start
and take one of the mock exam test
that's included in this course.
I'm going to click on start course.
And here, you can see that we have in total 10 mock exams.
All of them are randomized.
And for this demonstration,
let's make use of CKA Mock Exam 1.
So once you click on this Lab,
the Lab should load up within 30 seconds,
an average of one to two minutes is to be expected.
But more often than not, it should load within 30 seconds.
There you have it, the first Lab has been loaded.
And here, you can see that we have in total 20 questions.
And the very first question,
is from the section architecture, install and maintenance.
And if you remember, it accounts for 25% of the questions.
So for the first question,
we have to set the context to cluster3.
So before we begin, let me show you all the clusters
that are currently configured.
As you can see, we are currently on the student-node.
And to check all the clusters that are configured,
you can use the command kubectl config get-clusters.
So as you can see here,
we have four clusters in total.
And by default, if you do not set any context,
you should be accessing the cluster1.
So as you can see,
cluster1 which has got two worker nodes,
which is cluster1-node01 and node02.
So in this case, we have to make use of cluster3.
So I'm going to copy this text here
and paste it in the student-node.
So remember, student-node itself is just a client
where you'll find that you log in,
if you open a new terminal,
you'll also log into student-node.
But if you want to access any
of these control planes specifically,
you'll have to make use of the ssh command.
So now I have set the context to cluster3.
And if I run the same command as before,
you'll see that this is a single-node cluster
with just one control plane.
So it's cluster3-controlplane
and the version is 1.24 as of this recording.
And similarly, you can set context for each of the question
and that's something that I highly recommend that you do.
Each question will make sure
that you try to access the correct cluster
by setting the context.
So in this case, let's read the question.
We have to decode the existing secret,
which is called beta-sec-cka14-arch created
in a separate namespace.
So let's attempt this question first.
So I'm just going to check if this namespace exists.
So as you can see, we do have that namespace.
So I'm going to type kubectl get secrets -n.
And here, you can see
that that secret does indeed exist.
So let me get it in a YAML format,
so that we can see the data.
And here,
you can see that the secret is stored here
under the data section.
And what I'm going to do,
is I'm just going to base64 decode it
and put it in that file.
So I'm going to echo this particular string here
and base64 -d.
So all that it says is this is the secret.
Now what we can do is we can redirect that directly
onto that file.
And remember, this says that it has to be stored
on the student-node.
So I'm already on the student-node,
so I'm just going to redirect the decoded secret
to this file.
And that should be it.
Now I'll just scroll through the rest of the questions
and show you the different sections that they belong to.
So as you can see, the first question was of weightage eight
and belonged
to the section architecture, install and maintenance.
The second question is of weightage two,
also belonging to the same section.
Let's just scroll on,
just like any of our current mock exams,
you can scroll back and forth between questions.
But only thing to note is that you have to complete the test
within the allotted time.
If you run over,
it'll automatically end the exam and validate it for you.
But at any given point in time,
you can choose to click on the end exam button
and see the score for yourself.
The third question is also from the same section.
So is the fourth and the fifth one as well.
Now the sixth question as you can see,
is from the troubleshooting section.
If you remember, this section is one of the largest for CKA
and accounts for 30% of the questions.
And moving along, you should find
that the next question is from a different section.
In this case, as you can see,
this is from the scheduling section.
Similarly, you'll find other questions belonging
to other sections,
such as storage and networking in the test.
So once you're happy with your attempt,
you can click on the end exam button
and this should automatically trigger the validation.
So in this case, I've attempted only the question one,
so everything else will be marked as incorrect.
But I just wanted to show you
how to navigate the mock exam series.
And once this is done, I want to reload this Lab again
and show you
that the next attempt can be completely different.
So here, I am trying to launch the Mock Exam 1 again.
So let's do that.
All right, so the CKA Mock Exam 1 is loaded again.
Now if you remember,
in our first attempt,
the first question was to decode the secret.
Now it's completely changed.
So this is completely expected.
All of the questions are randomized.
So you can expect different questions,
each time you attend the same Lab.
Now if you're not sure what the solution is,
the solution will be provided for you at the end of the exam
during the grading process.
So for example,
I did not attempt the first question, this is wrong.
So you will be provided with this solution immediately.
So in case you are stuck,
make sure that you go over the solution that is provided
and then you can try to take the test again.
So that was a quick demonstration
of the ultimate CKA mock exam series.
I hope that you find this really useful
and best of luck with your preparation.
Thank you.
(air whooshing)
(gentle music)

--- Kubernetes Update and Project Videos - Your Essential Guide ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
